*Project Gutenberg's Home Life in Colonial Days, by Alice Morse Earle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Home Life in Colonial Days

Author: Alice Morse Earle

Release Date: September 19, 2007 [EBook #22675]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HOME LIFE IN COLONIAL DAYS ***




Produced by Mark C. Orton, Constanze Hofmann and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






Transcriber's Note:

This e-text was prepared from the reprint edition published in 1974 by
Berkshire Traveller Press. Copyrighted materials from that edition,
including the modern preface and illustrations, are not included.

       *       *       *       *       *




Home Life in
COLONIAL
DAYS

Written by
ALICE MORSE EARLE
in the year 1898

THE BERKSHIRE TRAVELLER PRESS
Stockbridge, Massachusetts

_THIS BOOK IS BEGUN
AS IT IS ENDED
IN MEMORY OF MY MOTHER_




_Foreword_


_The illustrations for this book are in every case from real articles
and scenes, usually from those still in existence--rare relics of past
days. The pictures are the symbols of years of careful search, patient
investigation, and constant watchfulness. Many a curious article as
nameless and incomprehensible as the totem of an extinct Indian tribe
has been studied, compared, inquired and written about, and finally
triumphantly named and placed in the list of obsolete domestic
appurtenances. From the lofts of woodsheds, under attic eaves, in dairy
cellars, out of old trunks and sea-chests from mouldering warehouses,
have strangely shaped bits and combinations of wood, stuff, and metal
been rescued and recognized. The treasure stores of Deerfield Memorial
Hall, of the Bostonian Society, of the American Antiquarian Society, and
many State Historical Societies have been freely searched; and to the
officers of these societies I give cordial thanks for their co*peration
and assistance in my work._

_The artistic and correct photographic representation of many of these
objects I owe to Mr. William F. Halliday of Boston, Massachusetts, Mr.
George F. Cook of Richmond, Virginia, and the Misses Allen of Deerfield,
Massachusetts. To many friends, and many strangers, who have secured for
me single articles or single photographs, I here repeat the thanks
already given for their kindness._

_There were two constant obstacles in the path: An article would be
found and a name given by old-time country folk, but no dictionary
contained the word, no printed description of its use or purpose could
be obtained, though a century ago it was in every household. Again, some
curiously shaped utensil or tool might be displayed and its use
indicated; but it was nameless, and it took long inquiry and
deduction,--the faculty of "taking a hint,"--to christen it. It is plain
that different vocations and occupations had not only implements but a
vocabulary of their own, and all have become almost obsolete; to the
various terms, phrases, and names, once in general application and use
in spinning, weaving, and kindred occupations, and now half forgotten,
might be given the descriptive title, a "homespun vocabulary." By
definite explanation of these terms many a good old English word and
phrase has been rescued from disuse._

                                        _ALICE MORSE EARLE._




Contents


                                                                    Page

   I. Homes of the Colonists                                           1

  II. The Light of Other Days                                         32

 III. The Kitchen Fireside                                            52

  IV. The Serving of Meals                                            76

   V. Food from Forest and Sea                                       108

  VI. Indian Corn                                                    126

 VII. Meat and Drink                                                 142

VIII. Flax Culture and Spinning                                      166

  IX. Wool Culture and Spinning, with a Postscript on Cotton         187

   X. Hand-Weaving                                                   212

  XI. Girls' Occupations                                             252

 XII. Dress of the Colonists                                         281

XIII. Jack-knife Industries                                          300

 XIV. Travel, Transportation, and Taverns                            325

  XV. Sunday in the Colonies                                         364

 XVI. Colonial Neighborliness                                        388

XVII. Old-time Flower Gardens                                        421




Home Life in Colonial Days




CHAPTER I

HOMES OF THE COLONISTS


When the first settlers landed on American shores, the difficulties in
finding or making shelter must have seemed ironical as well as almost
unbearable. The colonists found a land magnificent with forest trees of
every size and variety, but they had no sawmills, and few saws to cut
boards; there was plenty of clay and ample limestone on every side, yet
they could have no brick and no mortar; grand boulders of granite and
rock were everywhere, yet there was not a single facility for cutting,
drawing, or using stone. These homeless men, so sorely in need of
immediate shelter, were baffled by pioneer conditions, and had to turn
to many poor expedients, and be satisfied with rude covering. In
Pennsylvania, New York, Massachusetts, and, possibly, other states, some
reverted to an ancient form of shelter: they became cave-dwellers; caves
were dug in the side of a hill, and lived in till the settlers could
have time to chop down and cut up trees for log houses. Cornelis Van
Tienhoven, Secretary of the Province of New Netherland, gives a
description of these cave-dwellings, and says that "the wealthy and
principal men in New England lived in this fashion for two reasons:
first, not to waste time building; second, not to discourage poorer
laboring people." It is to be doubted whether wealthy men ever lived in
them in New England, but Johnson, in his _Wonder-working Providence_,
written in 1645, tells of the occasional use of these "smoaky homes."
They were speedily abandoned, and no records remain of permanent
cave-homes in New England. In Pennsylvania caves were used by newcomers
as homes for a long time, certainly half a century. They generally were
formed by digging into the ground about four feet in depth on the banks
or low cliffs near the river front. The walls were then built up of sods
or earth laid on poles or brush; thus half only of the chamber was
really under ground. If dug into a side hill, the earth formed at least
two walls. The roofs were layers of tree limbs covered over with sod, or
bark, or rushes and bark. The chimneys were laid of cobblestone or
sticks of wood mortared with clay and grass. The settlers were thankful
even for these poor shelters, and declared that they found them
comfortable. By 1685 many families were still living in caves in
Pennsylvania, for the Governor's Council then ordered the caves to be
destroyed and filled in. Sometimes the settler used the cave for a
cellar for the wooden house which he built over it.

These cave-dwellings were perhaps the poorest houses ever known by any
Americans, yet pioneers, or poor, or degraded folk have used them for
homes in America until far more recent days. In one of these miserable
habitations of earth and sod in the town of Rutland, Massachusetts, were
passed some of the early years of the girlhood of Madame Jumel, whose
beautiful house on Washington Heights, New York, still stands to show
the contrasts that can come in a single life.

The homes of the Indians were copied by the English, being ready
adaptations of natural and plentiful resources. Wigwams in the South
were of plaited rush or grass mats; of deerskins pinned on a frame; of
tree boughs rudely piled into a cover, and in the far South, of layers
of palmetto leaves. In the mild climate of the Middle and Southern
states a "half-faced camp," of the Indian form, with one open side,
which served for windows and door, and where the fire was built, made a
good temporary home. In such for a time, in his youth, lived Abraham
Lincoln. Bark wigwams were the most easily made of all; they could be
quickly pinned together on a light frame. In 1626 there were thirty
home-buildings of Europeans on the island of Manhattan, now New York,
and all but one of them were of bark.

Though the settler had no sawmills, brick kilns, or stone-cutters, he
had one noble friend,--a firm rock to stand upon,--his broad-axe. With
his axe, and his own strong and willing arms, he could take a long step
in advance in architecture; he could build a log cabin. These good,
comfortable, and substantial houses have ever been built by American
pioneers, not only in colonial days, but in our Western and Southern
states to the present time. A typical one like many now standing and
occupied in the mountains of North Carolina is here shown. Round logs
were halved together at the corners, and roofed with logs, or with bark
and thatch on poles; this made a comfortable shelter, especially when
the cracks between the logs were "chinked" with wedges of wood, and
"daubed" with clay. Many cabins had at first no chinking or daubing; one
settler while sleeping was scratched on the head by the sharp teeth of a
hungry wolf, who thrust his nose into the space between the logs of the
cabin. Doors were hung on wooden hinges or straps of hide.

A favorite form of a log house for a settler to build in his first "cut
down" in the virgin forest, was to dig a square trench about two feet
deep, of dimensions as large as he wished the ground floor of his house,
then to set upright all around this trench (leaving a space for a
fireplace, window, and door), a closely placed row of logs all the same
length, usually fourteen feet long for a single story; if there was a
loft, eighteen feet long. The earth was filled in solidly around these
logs, and kept them firmly upright; a horizontal band of puncheons,
which were split logs smoothed off on the face with the axe, was
sometimes pinned around within the log walls, to keep them from caving
in. Over this was placed a bark roof, made of squares of chestnut bark,
or shingles of overlapping birch-bark. A bark or log shutter was hung at
the window, and a bark door hung on withe hinges, or, if very luxurious,
on leather straps, completed the quickly made home. This was called
rolling-up a house, and the house was called a puncheon and bark house.
A rough puncheon floor, hewed flat with an axe or adze, was truly a
luxury. One settler's wife pleaded that the house might be rolled up
around a splendid flat stump; thus she had a good, firm table. A small
platform placed about two feet high alongside one wall, and supported at
the outer edge with strong posts, formed a bedstead. Sometimes hemlock
boughs were the only bed. The frontier saying was, "A hard day's work
makes a soft bed." The tired pioneers slept well even on hemlock boughs.
The chinks of the logs were filled with moss and mud, and in the autumn
banked up outside with earth for warmth.

These log houses did not satisfy English men and women. They longed to
have what Roger Williams called English houses, which were, however,
scarcely different in ground-plan. A single room on the ground, called
in many old wills the fire-room, had a vast chimney at one end. A
so-called staircase, usually but a narrow ladder, led to a sleeping-loft
above. Some of those houses were still made of whole logs, but with
clapboards nailed over the chinks and cracks. Others were of a lighter
frame covered with clapboards, or in Delaware with boards pinned on
perpendicularly. Soon this house was doubled in size and comfort by
having a room on either side of the chimney.

Each settlement often followed in general outline as well as detail the
houses to which the owners had become accustomed in Europe, with, of
course, such variations as were necessary from the new surroundings, new
climate, and new limitations. New York was settled by the Dutch, and
therefore naturally the first permanent houses were Dutch in shape, such
as may be seen in Holland to-day. In the large towns in New Netherland
the houses were certainly very pretty, as all visitors stated who wrote
accounts at that day. Madam Knights visited New York in 1704, and wrote
of the houses,--I will give her own words, in her own spelling and
grammar, which were not very good, though she was the teacher of
Benjamin Franklin, and the friend of Cotton Mather:--

     "The Buildings are Brick Generaly very stately and high: the Bricks
     in some of the houses are of divers Coullers, and laid in Checkers,
     being glazed, look very agreable. The inside of the houses is neat
     to admiration, the wooden work; for only the walls are plaster'd;
     and the Sumers and Gist are planed and kept very white scour'd as
     so is all the partitions if made of Bords."

The "sumers and gist" were the heavy timbers of the frame, the
summer-pieces and joists. The summer-piece was the large middle beam in
the middle from end to end of the ceiling; the joists were cross-beams.
These were not covered with plaster as nowadays, but showed in every
ceiling; and in old houses are sometimes set so curiously and fitted so
ingeniously, that they are always an entertaining study. Another
traveller says that New York houses had patterns of colored brick set in
the front, and also bore the date of building. The Governor's house at
Albany had two black brick-hearts. Dutch houses were set close to the
sidewalk with the gable-end to the street; and had the roof notched like
steps,--corbel-roof was the name; and these ends were often of brick,
while the rest of the walls were of wood. The roofs were high in
proportion to the side walls, and hence steep; they were surmounted
usually in Holland fashion with weather-vanes in the shape of horses,
lions, geese, sloops, or fish; a rooster was a favorite Dutch
weather-vane. There were metal gutters sticking out from every roof
almost to the middle of the street; this was most annoying to passers-by
in rainy weather, who were deluged with water from the roofs. The cellar
windows had small loop-holes with shutters. The windows were always
small; some had only sliding shutters, others had but two panes or
quarels of glass, as they were called, which were only six or eight
inches square. The front doors were cut across horizontally in the
middle into two parts, and in early days were hung on leather hinges
instead of iron.

In the upper half of the door were two round bull's-eyes of heavy
greenish glass, which let faint rays of light enter the hall. The door
opened with a latch, and often had also a knocker. Every house had a
porch or "stoep" flanked with benches, which were constantly occupied in
the summer time; and every evening, in city and village alike, an
incessant visiting was kept up from stoop to stoop. The Dutch farmhouses
were a single straight story, with two more stories in the high,
in-curving roof. They had doors and stoops like the town houses, and all
the windows had heavy board shutters. The cellar and the garret were the
most useful rooms in the house; they were store-rooms for all kinds of
substantial food. In the cellar were great bins of apples, potatoes,
turnips, beets, and parsnips. There were hogsheads of corned beef,
barrels of salt pork, tubs of hams being salted in brine, tonnekens of
salt shad and mackerel, firkins of butter, kegs of pigs' feet, tubs of
souse, kilderkins of lard. On a long swing-shelf were tumblers of spiced
fruits, and "rolliches," head-cheese, and strings of sausages--all Dutch
delicacies.

In strong racks were barrels of cider and vinegar, and often of beer.
Many contained barrels of rum and a pipe of Madeira. What a storehouse
of plenty and thrift! What an emblem of Dutch character! In the attic
by the chimney was the smoke-house, filled with hams, bacon, smoked
beef, and sausages.

In Virginia and Maryland, where people did not gather into towns, but
built their houses farther apart, there were at first few sawmills, and
the houses were universally built of undressed logs. Nails were costly,
as were all articles manufactured of iron, hence many houses were built
without iron; wooden pins and pegs were driven in holes cut to receive
them; hinges were of leather; the shingles on the roof were sometimes
pinned, or were held in place by "weight-timbers." The doors had latches
with strings hanging outside; by pulling in the string within-doors the
house was securely locked. This form of latch was used in all the
colonies. When persons were leaving houses, they sometimes set them on
fire in order to gather up the nails from the ashes. To prevent this
destruction of buildings, the government of Virginia gave to each
planter who was leaving his house as many nails as the house was
estimated to have in its frame, provided the owner would not burn the
house down.

Some years later, when boards could be readily obtained, the favorite
dwelling-place in the South was a framed building with a great stone or
log-and-clay chimney at either end. The house was usually set on sills
resting on the ground. The partitions were sometimes covered with a
thick layer of mud which dried into a sort of plaster and was
whitewashed. The roofs were covered with cypress shingles.

Hammond wrote of these houses in 1656, in his _Leah and Rachel_,
"Pleasant in their building, and contrived delightfull; the rooms large,
daubed and whitelimed, glazed and flowered; and if not glazed windows,
shutters made pretty and convenient."

When prosperity and wealth came through the speedily profitable crops of
tobacco, the houses improved. The home-lot or yard of the Southern
planters showed a pleasant group of buildings, which would seem the most
cheerful home of the colonies, only that all dearly earned homes are
cheerful to their owners. There was not only the spacious mansion house
for the planter with its pleasant porch, but separate buildings in which
were a kitchen, cabins for the negro servants and the overseer, a
stable, barn, coach-house, hen-house, smoke-house, dove-cote, and
milk-room. In many yards a tall pole with a toy house at top was
erected; in this bird-house bee-martins built their nests, and by
bravely disconcerting the attacks of hawks and crows, and noisily
notifying the family and servants of the approach of the enemy, thus
served as a guardian for the domestic poultry, whose home stood close
under this protection. There was seldom an ice-house. The only means for
the preservation of meats in hot weather was by water constantly pouring
into and through a box house erected over the spring that flowed near
the house. Sometimes a brew-house was also found in the yard, for making
home-brewed beer, and a tool-house for storing tools and farm
implements. Some farms had a cider-mill, but this was not in the house
yard. Often there was a spinning-house where servants could spin flax
and wool. This usually had one room containing a hand-loom on which
coarse bagging could be woven, and homespun for the use of the negroes.
A very beautiful example of a splendid and comfortable Southern mansion
such as was built by wealthy planters in the middle of the eighteenth
century has been preserved for us at Mount Vernon, the home of George
Washington.

Mount Vernon was not so fine nor so costly a house as many others built
earlier in the century, such as Lower Brandon--two centuries and a half
old--and Upper Brandon, the homes of the Harrisons; Westover, the home
of the Byrds; Shirley, built in 1650, the home of the Carters; Sabin
Hall, another Carter home, is still standing on the Rappahannock with
its various and many quarters and outbuildings, and is a splendid
example of colonial architecture.

As the traveller came north from Virginia through Pennsylvania, "the
Jerseys," and Delaware, the negro cabins and detached kitchen
disappeared, and many of the houses were of stone and mortar. A clay
oven stood by each house. In the cities stone and brick were much used,
and by 1700 nearly all Philadelphia houses had balconies running the
entire length of the second story. The stoop before the door was
universal.

For half a century nearly all New England houses were cottages. Many had
thatched roofs. Seaside towns set aside for public use certain reedy
lots between salt-marsh and low-water mark, where thatch could be freely
cut. The catted chimneys were of logs plastered with clay, or platted,
that is, made of reeds and mortar; and as wood and hay were stacked in
the streets, all the early towns suffered much from fires, and soon laws
were passed forbidding the building of these unsafe chimneys; as brick
was imported and made, and stone was quarried, there was certainly no
need to use such danger-filled materials. Fire-wardens were appointed
who peered around in all the kitchens, hunting for what they called foul
chimney hearts, and they ordered flag-roofs and wooden chimneys to be
removed, and replaced with stone or brick ones. In Boston every
housekeeper had to own a fire-ladder; and ladders and buckets were kept
in the church. Salem kept its "fire-buckets and hook'd poles" in the
town-house. Soon in all towns each family owned fire-buckets made of
heavy leather and marked with the owner's name or initials. The entire
town constituted the fire company, and the method of using the
fire-buckets was this. As soon as an alarm of fire was given by shouts
or bell-ringing, every one ran at once towards the scene of the fire.
All who owned buckets carried them, and if any person was delayed even
for a few minutes, he flung his fire-buckets from the window into the
street, where some one in the running crowd seized them and carried them
on. On reaching the fire, a double line called lanes of persons was made
from the fire to the river or pond, or a well. A very good
representation of these lanes is given in this fireman's certificate of
the year 1800.

The buckets, filled with water, were passed from hand to hand, up one
line of persons to the fire, while the empty ones went down the other
line. Boys were stationed on the _dry lane_. Thus a constant supply of
water was carried to the fire. If any person attempted to pass through
the line, or hinder the work, he promptly got a bucketful or two of
water poured over him. When the fire was over, the fire-warden took
charge of the buckets; some hours later the owners appeared, each picked
out his own buckets from the pile, carried them home, and hung them up
by the front door, ready to be seized again for use at the next alarm of
fire.

Many of these old fire-buckets are still preserved, and deservedly are
cherished heirlooms, for they represent the dignity and importance due
a house-holding ancestor. They were a valued possession at the time of
their use, and a costly one, being, made of the best leather. They were
often painted not only with the name of the owner, but with family
mottoes, crests, or appropriate inscriptions, sometimes in Latin. The
leather hand-buckets of the Donnison family of Boston are here shown;
those of the Quincy family bear the legend _Impavadi Flammarium_; those
of the Oliver family, _Friend and Public_. In these fire-buckets were
often kept, tightly rolled, strong canvas bags, in which valuables
could be thrust and carried from the burning building.

The first fire-engine made in this country was for the town of Boston,
and was made about 1650 by Joseph Jencks, the famous old iron-worker in
Lynn. It was doubtless very simple in shape, as were its successors
until well into this century. The first fire-engine used in Brooklyn,
New York, is here shown. It was made in 1785 by Jacob Boome. Relays of
men at both handles worked the clumsy pump. The water supply for this
engine was still only through the lanes of fire-buckets, except in rare
cases.

By the year 1670 wooden chimneys and log houses of the Plymouth and Bay
colonies were replaced by more sightly houses of two stories, which were
frequently built with the second story jutting out a foot or two over
the first, and sometimes with the attic story still further extending
over the second story. A few of these are still standing: The
White-Ellery House, at Gloucester, Massachusetts, in 1707, is here
shown. This "overhang" is popularly supposed to have been built for the
purpose of affording a convenient shooting-place from which to repel the
Indians. This is, however, an historic fable. The overhanging second
story was a common form of building in England in the time of Queen
Elizabeth, and the Massachusetts and Rhode Island settlers simply and
naturally copied their old homes.

The roofs of many of these new houses were steep, and were shingled with
hand-riven shingles. The walls between the rooms were of clay mixed with
chopped straw. Sometimes the walls were whitened with a wash made of
powdered clam-shells. The ground floors were occasionally of earth, but
puncheon floors were common in the better houses. The well-smoothed
timbers were sanded in careful designs with cleanly beach sand.

By 1676 the Royal Commissioners wrote of Boston that the streets were
crooked, and the houses usually wooden, with a few of brick and stone.
It is a favorite tradition of brick houses in all the colonies that the
brick for them was brought from England. As excellent brick was made
here, I cannot believe all these tales that are told. Occasionally a
house, such as the splendid Warner Mansion, still standing in
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, is proved to be of imported brick by the
bills which are still existing for the purchase and transportation of
the brick. A later form of many houses was two stories or two stories
and a half in front, with a peaked roof that sloped down nearly to the
ground in the back over an ell covering the kitchen, added in the shape
known as a lean-to, or, as it was called by country folk, the linter.
This sloping roof gave the one element of unconscious picturesqueness
which redeemed the prosaic ugliness of these bare-walled houses. Many
lean-to houses are still standing in New England. The Boardman Hill
House, built at North Saugus, Massachusetts, two centuries and a half
ago, and the two houses of lean-to form, the birthplaces of President
John Adams and of President John Quincy Adams, are typical examples.

The next roof-form, built from early colonial days, and popular a
century ago, was what was known as the gambrel roof. This resembled, on
two sides, the mansard roof of France in the seventeenth century, but
was also gabled at two ends. The gambrel roof had a certain grace of
outline, especially when joined with lean-tos and other additions. The
house partly built in 1636 in Dedham, Massachusetts, by my far-away
grandfather, and known as the Fairbanks House, is the oldest
gambrel-roofed house now standing. It is still occupied by one of his
descendants in the eighth generation. The rear view of it, here given,
shows the picturesqueness of roof outlines and the quaintness which
comes simply from variety. The front of the main building, with its
eight windows, all of different sizes and set at different heights,
shows equal diversity. Within, the boards in the wall-panelling vary
from two to twenty-five inches in width.

The windows of the first houses had oiled paper to admit light. A
colonist wrote back to England to a friend who was soon to follow,
"Bring oiled paper for your windows." The minister, Higginson, sent
promptly in 1629 for glass for windows. This glass was set in the
windows with nails; the sashes were often narrow and oblong, of
diamond-shaped panes set in lead, and opening up and down the middle on
hinges. Long after the large towns and cities had glass windows,
frontier settlements still had heavy wooden shutters. They were a safer
protection against Indian assault, as well as cheaper. It is asserted
that in the province of Kennebec, which is now the state of Maine, there
was not, even as late as 1745, a house that had a square of glass in it.
Oiled paper was used until this century in pioneer houses for windows
wherever it was difficult to transport glass.

Few of the early houses in New England were painted, or colored, as it
was called, either without or within. Painters do not appear in any of
the early lists of workmen. A Salem citizen, just previous to the
Revolution, had the woodwork of one of the rooms of his house painted.
One of a group of friends, discussing this extravagance a few days
later, said: "Well! Archer has set us a fine example of expense,--he has
laid one of his rooms in oil." This sentence shows both the wording and
ideas of the times.

There was one external and suggestive adjunct of the earliest pioneer's
home which was found in nearly all the settlements which were built in
the midst of threatening Indians. Some strong houses were always
surrounded by a stockade, or "palisado," of heavy, well-fitted logs,
which thus formed a garrison, or neighborhood resort, in time of danger.
In the valley of Virginia each settlement was formed of houses set in a
square, connected from end to end of the outside walls by stockades
with gates; thus forming a close front. On the James River, on Manhattan
Island, were stockades. The whole town plot of Milford, Connecticut, was
enclosed in 1645, and the Indians taunted the settlers by shouting out,
"White men all same like pigs." At one time in Massachusetts, twenty
towns proposed an all-surrounding palisade. The progress and condition
of our settlements can be traced in our fences. As Indians disappeared
or succumbed, the solid row of pales gave place to a log-fence, which
served well to keep out depredatory animals. When dangers from Indians
or wild animals entirely disappeared, boards were still not over-plenty,
and the strength of the owner could not be over-spent on unnecessary
fencing. Then came the double-rail fence; two rails, held in place one
above the other, at each joining, by four crossed sticks. It was a
boundary, and would keep in cattle. It was said that every fence should
be horse-high, bull-proof, and pig-tight. Then came stone walls, showing
a thorough clearing and taming of the land. The succeeding "half-high"
stone wall--a foot or two high, with a single rail on top--showed that
stones were not as plentiful in the fields as in early days. The
"snake-fence," or "Virginia fence," so common in the Southern states,
utilized the second growth of forest trees. The split-rail fence, four
or five rails in height, was set at intervals with posts, pierced with
holes to hold the ends of the rails. These were used to some extent in
the East; but our Western states were fenced throughout with rails split
by sturdy pioneer rail-splitters, among them young Abraham Lincoln.
Board fences showed the day of the sawmill and its plentiful supply; the
wire fences of to-day equally prove the decrease of our forests and our
wood, and the growth of our mineral supplies and manufactures of
metals. Thus even our fences might be called historical monuments.

A few of the old block-houses, or garrison houses, the "defensible
houses," which were surrounded by these stockades, are still standing.
The most interesting are the old Garrison at East Haverhill,
Massachusetts, built in 1670; it has walls of solid oak, and brick a
foot and a half thick; the Saltonstall House at Ipswich, built in 1633;
Cradock Old Fort in Medford, Massachusetts, built in 1634 of brick made
on the spot; an old fort at York, Maine; and the Whitefield Garrison
House, built in 1639 at Guilford, Connecticut. The one at Newburyport is
the most picturesque and beautiful of them all.

As social life in Boston took on a little aspect of court life in the
circle gathered around the royal governors, the pride of the wealthy
found expression in handsome and stately houses. These were copied and
added to by men of wealth and social standing in other towns. The
Province House, built in 1679, the Frankland House in 1735, and the
Hancock House, all in Boston; the Shirley House in Roxbury, the
Wentworth Mansion in New Hampshire, are good examples. They were
dignified and simple in form, and have borne the test of
centuries,--they wear well. They never erred in over-ornamentation,
being scant of interior decoration, save in two or three principal rooms
and the hall and staircase. The panelled step ends and soffits, the
graceful newels and balusters, of those old staircases hold sway as
models to this day.

The same taste which made the staircase the centre of decoration within,
made the front door the sole point of ornamentation without; and equal
beauty is there focused. Worthy of study and reproduction, many of the
old-time front doors are with their fine panels, graceful, leaded side
windows, elaborate and pretty fan-lights, and slight but appropriate
carving. The prettiest leaded windows I ever saw in an American home
were in a thereby glorified hen-house. They had been taken from the
discarded front door of a remodelled old Falmouth house. The hens and
their owner were not of antiquarian tastes, and relinquished the windows
for a machine-made sash more suited to their plebeian tastes and
occupations. Many colonial doors had door-latches or knobs of heavy
brass; nearly all had a knocker of wrought iron or polished brass, a
cheerful ornament that ever seems to resound a welcome to the visitor as
well as a notification to the visited.

The knocker from the John Hancock House in Boston and that from the
Winslow House in Marshfield are here shown; both are now in the custody
of the Bostonian Society, and may be seen at the Old State House in
Boston. The latter was given to the society by Dr. Oliver Wendell
Holmes.

The "King-Hooper" House, still standing in Danvers, Massachusetts,
closely resembled the Hancock House. This house, built by Robert Hooper
in 1754, was for a time the refuge of the royal governor of
Massachusetts--Governor Gage; and hence is sometimes called General
Gage's Headquarters. When the minute-men marched past the house to
Lexington on April 18, 1775, they stripped the lead from the gate-posts.
"King Hooper" angrily denounced them, and a minute-man fired at him as
he entered the house. The bullet passed through the panel of the door,
and the rent may still be seen. Hence the house has been often called
The House of the Front Door with the Bullet-Hole. The present owner and
occupier of the house, Francis Peabody, Esq., has appropriately named it
The Lindens, from the stately linden trees that grace its gardens and
lawns.

In riding through those portions of our states that were the early
settled colonies, it is pleasant to note where any old houses are still
standing, or where the sites of early colonial houses are known, the
good taste usually shown by the colonists in the places chosen to build
their houses. They dearly loved a "sightly location." An old writer
said: "My consayte is such; I had rather not to builde a mansyon or a
house than to builde one without a good prospect in it, to it, and from
it." In Virginia the houses were set on the river slope, where every
passing boat might see them. The New England colonists painfully climbed
long, tedious hills, that they might have homes from whence could be had
a beautiful view, and this was for the double reason, as the old writer
said, that in their new homes they might both see and be seen.




CHAPTER II

THE LIGHT OF OTHER DAYS


The first and most natural way of lighting the houses of the American
colonists, both in the North and South, was by the pine-knots of the fat
pitch-pine, which, of course, were found everywhere in the greatest
plenty in the forests. Governor John Winthrop the younger, in his
communication to the English Royal Society in 1662, said this
candle-wood was much used for domestic illumination in Virginia, New
York, and New England. It was doubtless gathered everywhere in new
settlements, as it has been in pioneer homes till our own day. In Maine,
New Hampshire, and Vermont it was used till this century. In the
Southern states the pine-knots are still burned in humble households for
lighting purposes, and a very good light they furnish.

The historian Wood wrote in 1642, in his _New England's Prospect_:--

     "Out of these Pines is gotten the Candlewood that is much spoke of,
     which may serve as a shift among poore folks, but I cannot commend
     it for singular good, because it droppeth a pitchy kind of
     substance where it stands."

That pitchy kind of substance was tar, which was one of the most
valuable trade products of the colonists. So much tar was made by
burning the pines on the banks of the Connecticut, that as early as 1650
the towns had to prohibit the using of candle-wood for tar-making if
gathered within six miles of the Connecticut River, though it could be
gathered by families for illumination and fuel.

Rev. Mr. Higginson, writing in 1633, said of these pine-knots:--

     "They are such candles as the Indians commonly use, having no
     other, and they are nothing else but the wood of the pine tree,
     cloven in two little slices, something thin, which are so full of
     the moysture of turpentine and pitch that they burne as cleere as a
     torch."

To avoid having smoke in the room, and on account of the pitchy
droppings, the candle-wood was usually burned in a corner of the
fireplace, on a flat stone. The knots were sometimes called
pine-torches. One old Massachusetts minister boasted at the end of his
life that every sermon of the hundreds he had written, had been copied
by the light of these torches. Rev. Mr. Newman, of Rehoboth, is said to
have compiled his vast concordance of the Bible wholly by the dancing
light of this candle-wood. Lighting was an important item of expense in
any household of so small an income as that of a Puritan minister; and
the single candle was often frugally extinguished during the long family
prayers each evening. Every family laid in a good supply of this light
wood for winter use, and it was said that a prudent New England farmer
would as soon start the winter without hay in his barn as without
candle-wood in his woodshed.

Mr. Higginson wrote in 1630: "Though New England has no tallow to make
candles of, yet by abundance of fish thereof it can afford oil for
lamps." This oil was apparently wholly neglected, though there were few,
or no domestic animals to furnish tallow; but when cattle increased,
every ounce of tallow was saved as a precious and useful treasure; and
as they became plentiful it was one of the household riches of New
England, which was of value to our own day. When Governor Winthrop
arrived in Massachusetts, he promptly wrote over to his wife to bring
candles with her from England when she came. And in 1634 he sent over
for a large quantity of wicks and tallow. Candles cost fourpence apiece,
which made them costly luxuries for the thrifty colonists.

Wicks were made of loosely spun hemp or tow, or of cotton; from the
milkweed which grows so plentifully in our fields and roads to-day the
children gathered in late summer the silver "silk-down" which was "spun
grossly into candle wicke." Sometimes the wicks were dipped into
saltpetre.

Thomas Tusser wrote in England in the sixteenth century in his
_Directions to Housewifes_:--

      "Wife, make thine own candle,
      Spare penny to handle.
    Provide for thy tallow ere frost cometh in,
    And make thine own candle ere winter begin."

Every thrifty housewife in America saved her penny as in England. The
making of the winter's stock of candles was the special autumnal
household duty, and a hard one too, for the great kettles were tiresome
and heavy to handle. An early hour found the work well under way. A good
fire was started in the kitchen fireplace under two vast kettles, each
two feet, perhaps, in diameter, which were hung on trammels from the
lug-pole or crane, and half filled with boiling water and melted tallow,
which had had two scaldings and skimmings. At the end of the kitchen or
in an adjoining and cooler room, sometimes in the lean-to, two long
poles were laid from chair to chair or stool to stool. Across these
poles were placed at regular intervals, like the rounds of a ladder,
smaller sticks about fifteen or eighteen inches long, called
candle-rods. These poles and rods were kept from year to year, either in
the garret or up on the kitchen beams.

To each candle-rod was attached about six or eight carefully
straightened candle-wicks. The wicking was twisted strongly one way;
then doubled; then the loop was slipped over the candle-rod, when the
two ends, of course, twisted the other way around each other, making a
firm wick. A rod, with its row of wicks, was dipped in the melted tallow
in the pot, and returned to its place across the poles. Each row was
thus dipped in regular turn; each had time to cool and harden between
the dips, and thus grew steadily in size. If allowed to cool fast, they
of course grew quickly, but were brittle, and often cracked. Hence a
good worker dipped slowly, but if the room was fairly cool, could make
two hundred candles for a day's work. Some could dip two rods at a time.
The tallow was constantly replenished, as the heavy kettles were used
alternately to keep the tallow constantly melted, and were swung off and
on the fire. Boards or sheets of paper were placed under the rods to
protect the snowy, scoured floors.

Candles were also run in moulds which were groups of metal cylinders,
usually made of tin or pewter. Itinerant candle-makers went from house
to house, taking charge of candle-making in the household, and carrying
large candle-moulds with them. One of the larger size, making two dozen
candles, is here shown; but its companion, the smaller mould, making six
candles, is such as were more commonly seen. Each wick was attached to a
wire or a nail placed across the open top of the cylinder, and hung down
in the centre of each individual mould. The melted tallow was poured in
carefully around the wicks.

Wax candles also were made. They were often shaped by hand, by pressing
bits of heated wax around a wick. Farmers kept hives of bees as much for
the wax as for the honey, which was of much demand for sweetening, when
"loaves" of sugar were so high-priced. Deer suet, moose fat, bear's
grease, all were saved in frontier settlements, and carefully tried into
tallow for candles. Every particle of grease rescued from pot liquor, or
fat from meat, was utilized for candle-making. Rushlights were made by
stripping part of the outer bark from common rushes, thus leaving the
pith bare, then dipping them in tallow or grease, and letting them
harden.

The precious candles thus tediously made were taken good care of. They
were carefully packed in candle-boxes with compartments; were covered
over, and set in a dark closet, where they would not discolor and turn
yellow. A metal candle-box, hung on the edge of the kitchen
mantel-shelf, always held two or three candles to replenish those which
burnt out in the candlesticks.

A natural, and apparently inexhaustible, material for candles was found
in all the colonies in the waxy berries of the bayberry bush, which
still grows in large quantities on our coasts. In the year 1748 a
Swedish naturalist, Professor Kalm, came to America, and he wrote an
account of the bayberry wax which I will quote in full:--

     "There is a plant here from the berries of which they make a kind
     of wax or tallow, and for that reason the Swedes call it the
     tallow-shrub. The English call the same tree the candle-berry tree
     or bayberry bush; it grows abundantly in a wet soil, and seems to
     thrive particularly well in the neighborhood of the sea. The
     berries look as if flour had been strewed on them. They are
     gathered late in Autumn, being ripe about that time, and are thrown
     into a kettle or pot full of boiling water; by this means their fat
     melts out, floats at the top of the water, and may be skimmed off
     into a vessel; with the skimming they go on till there is no tallow
     left. The tallow, as soon as it is congealed, looks like common
     tallow or wax, but has a dirty green color. By being melted over
     and refined it acquires a fine and transparent green color. This
     tallow is dearer than common tallow, but cheaper than wax. Candles
     of this do not easily bend, nor melt in summer as common candles
     do; they burn better and slower, nor do they cause any smoke, but
     yield rather an agreeable smell when they are extinguished. In
     Carolina they not only make candles out of the wax of the berries,
     but likewise sealing-wax."

Beverley, the historian of Virginia, wrote of the smell of burning
bayberry tallow:--

     "If an accident puts a candle out, it yields a pleasant fragrancy
     to all that are in the room; insomuch that nice people often put
     them out on purpose to have the incense of the expiring snuff."

Bayberry wax was not only a useful home-product, but an article of
traffic till this century, and was constantly advertised in the
newspapers. In 1712, in a letter written to John Winthrop, F.R.S., I
find:--

     "I am now to beg one favour of you,--that you secure for me all the
     bayberry wax you can possibly put your hands on. You must take a
     care they do not put too much tallow among it, being a custom and
     cheat they have got."

Bayberries were of enough importance to have some laws made about them.
Everywhere on Long Island grew the stunted bushes, and everywhere they
were valued. The town of Brookhaven, in 1687, forbade the gathering of
the berries before September 15, under penalty of fifteen shillings'
fine.

The pungent and unique scent of the bayberry, equally strong in leaf
and berry, is to me one of the elements of the purity and sweetness of
the air of our New England coast fields in autumn. It grows everywhere,
green and cheerful, in sun-withered shore pastures, in poor bits of
earth on our rocky coast, where it has few fellow field-tenants to crowd
the ground. It is said that the highest efforts of memory are stimulated
through our sense of smell, by the association of ideas with scents.
That of bayberry, whenever I pass it, seems to awaken in me an
hereditary memory, to recall a life of two centuries ago. I recall the
autumns of trial and of promise in our early history, and the bayberry
fields are peopled with children in Puritan garb, industriously
gathering the tiny waxen fruit. Equally full of sentiment is the scent
of my burning bayberry candles, which were made last autumn in an old
colony town.

The history of whale-fishing in New England is the history of one of the
most fascinating commercial industries the world has ever known. It is a
story with every element of intense interest, showing infinite romance,
adventure, skill, courage, and fortitude. It brought vast wealth to the
communities that carried on the fishing, and great independence and
comfort to the families of the whalers. To the whalemen themselves it
brought incredible hardships and dangers, yet they loved the life with
a love which is strange to view and hard to understand. In the oil made
from these "royal fish" the colonists found a vast and cheap supply for
their metal and glass lamps; while the toothed whales had stored in
their blunt heads a valuable material which was at once used for making
candles; it is termed, in the most ancient reference I have found to it
in New England records, Sperma-Coeti.

It was asserted that one of these spermaceti candles gave out more light
than three tallow candles, and had four times as big a flame. Soon their
manufacture and sale amounted to large numbers, and materially improved
domestic illumination.

All candles, whatever their material, were carefully used by the
economical colonists to the last bit by a little wire frame of pins and
rings called a save-all. Candle-sticks of various metals and shapes were
found in every house; and often sconces, which were also called
candle-arms, or prongs. Candle-beams were rude chandeliers, a metal or
wooden hoop with candle-holders. Snuffers were always seen, with which
to trim the candles, and snuffers trays. These were sometimes
exceedingly richly ornamented, and were often of silver: extinguishers
often accompanied the snuffers.

Though lamps occasionally appear on early inventories and lists of
sales, and though there was plenty of whale and fish oil to burn, lamps
were not extensively used in America for many years. "Betty-lamps,"
shaped much like antique Roman lamps, were the earliest form. They were
small, shallow receptacles, two or three inches in diameter and about an
inch in depth; either rectangular, oval, round, or triangular in shape,
with a projecting nose or spout an inch or two long. They usually had a
hook and chain by which they could be hung on a nail in the wall, or on
the round in the back of a chair; sometimes there was also a smaller
hook for cleaning out the nose of the lamp. They were filled with
tallow, grease, or oil, while a piece of cotton rag or coarse wick was
so placed that, when lighted, the end hung out on the nose. From this
wick, dripping dirty grease, rose a dull, smoky, ill-smelling flame.

Phoebe-lamps were similar in shape; though some had double wicks, that
is, a nose at either side. Three betty-lamps are shown in the
illustration: all came from old colonial houses. The iron lamp, solid
with the accumulated grease of centuries, was found in a Virginia cabin;
the rectangular brass lamp came from a Dutch farmhouse; and the graceful
oval brass lamp from a New England homestead.

Pewter was a favorite material for lamps, as it was for all other
domestic utensils. It was specially in favor for the lamps for whale
oil and the "Porter's fluid," that preceded our present illuminating
medium, petroleum. A rare form is the pewter lamp here shown. It is in
the collection of ancient lamps, lanterns, candlesticks, etc., owned by
Mrs. Samuel Bowne Duryea, of Brooklyn. It came from a Salem home, where
it was used as a house-lantern. With its clear bull's-eyes of unusually
pure glass, it gave what was truly a brilliant light for the century of
its use. A group of old pewter lamps, of the shapes commonly used in the
homes of our ancestors a century or so ago, is also given; chosen, not
because they were unusual or beautiful, but because they were universal
in their use.

The lamps of Count Rumford's invention were doubtless a great luxury,
with their clear steady light; but they were too costly to be commonly
seen in our grandfathers' homes. Nor were Argand burners ever universal.
Glass lamps of many simple shapes shared popularity for a long time with
the pewter lamps; and as pewter gradually disappeared from household
use, these glass lamps monopolized the field. They were rarely of cut or
colored glass, but were pressed glass of commonplace form and quality. A
group of them is here given which were all used in old New England
houses in the early part of this century.

For many years the methods of striking a light were very primitive, just
as they were in Europe; many families possessed no adequate means, or
very imperfect ones. If by ill fortune the fire in the fireplace became
wholly extinguished through carelessness at night, some one, usually a
small boy, was sent to the house of the nearest neighbor, bearing a
shovel or covered pan, or perhaps a broad strip of green bark, on which
to bring back coals for relighting the fire. Nearly all families had
some form of a flint and steel,--a method of obtaining fire which has
been used from time immemorial by both civilized and uncivilized
nations. This always required a flint, a steel, and a tinder of some
vegetable matter to catch the spark struck by the concussion of flint
and steel. This spark was then blown into a flame. Among the colonists
scorched linen was a favorite tinder to catch the spark of fire; and
till this century all the old cambric handkerchiefs, linen underwear,
and worn sheets of a household were carefully saved for this purpose.
The flint, steel, and tinder were usually kept together in a circular
tinder-box, such as is shown in the accompanying illustration; it was a
shape universal in England and America. This had an inner flat cover
with a ring, a flint, a horseshoe-shaped steel, and an upper lid with a
place to set a candle-end in, to carry the newly acquired light. Though
I have tried hundreds of times with this tinder-box, I have never yet
succeeded in striking a light. The sparks fly, but then the operation
ceases in modern hands. Charles Dickens said if you had good luck, you
could get a light in half an hour. Soon there was an improvement on this
tinder-box, by which sparks were obtained by spinning a steel wheel with
a piece of cord, somewhat like spinning a humming top, and making the
wheel strike a flint fixed in the side of a little trough full of
tinder. This was an infinite advance in convenience on tinder-box No. 1.
This box was called in the South a mill; one is here shown. Then some
person invented strips of wood dipped in sulphur and called "spunks."
These readily caught fire, and retained it, and were handy to carry
light to a candle or pile of chips.

Another way of starting a fire was by flashing a little powder in the
pan of an old-fashioned gun; sometimes this fired a twist of tow, which
in turn started a heap of shavings.

Down to the time of our grandfathers, and in some country homes of our
fathers, lights were started with these crude elements,--flint, steel,
tinder,--and transferred by the sulphur splint; for fifty years ago
matches were neither cheap nor common.

Though various processes for lighting in which sulphur was used in a
match shape, were brought before the public at the beginning of this
century, they were complicated, expensive, and rarely seen. The first
practical friction matches were "Congreves," made in England in 1827.
They were thin strips of wood or cardboard coated with sulphur and
tipped with a mixture of mucilage, chlorate of potash, and sulphide of
antimony. Eighty-four of them were sold in a box for twenty-five cents,
with a piece of "glass-paper" through which the match could be drawn.
There has been a long step this last fifty years between the tinder-box
used so patiently for two centuries, and the John Jex Long match-making
machine of our times, which turns out seventeen million matches a day.




CHAPTER III

THE KITCHEN FIRESIDE


The kitchen in all the farmhouses of all the colonies was the most
cheerful, homelike, and picturesque room in the house; indeed, it was in
town houses as well. The walls were often bare, the rafters dingy; the
windows were small, the furniture meagre; but the kitchen had a warm,
glowing heart that spread light and welcome, and made the poor room a
home. In the houses of the first settlers the chimneys and fireplaces
were vast in size, sometimes so big that the fore-logs and back-logs for
the fire had to be dragged in by a horse and a long chain; or a
hand-sled was kept for the purpose. Often there were seats within the
chimney on either side. At night children could sit on these seats and
there watch the sparks fly upward and join the stars which could plainly
be seen up the great chimney-throat.

But as the forests disappeared under the waste of burning for tar, for
potash, and through wanton clearing, the fireplaces shrank in size; and
Benjamin Franklin, even in his day, could write of "the fireplaces of
our fathers."

The inflammable catted chimney of logs and clay, hurriedly and readily
built by the first settlers, soon gave place in all houses to vast
chimneys of stone, built with projecting inner ledges, on which rested a
bar about six or seven or even eight feet from the floor, called a
lug-pole (lug meaning to carry) or a back-bar; this was made of green
wood, and thus charred slowly--but it charred surely in the generous
flames of the great chimney heart. Many annoying, and some fatal
accidents came from the collapsing of these wooden back-bars. The
destruction of a dinner sometimes was attended with the loss of a life.
Later the back-bars were made of iron. On them were hung iron hooks or
chains with hooks of various lengths called pothooks, trammels, hakes,
pot-hangers, pot-claws, pot-clips, pot-brakes, pot-crooks. Mr. Arnold
Talbot, of Providence, Rhode Island, has folding trammels, nine feet
long, which were found in an old Narragansett chimney heart. Gibcrokes
and recons were local and less frequent names, and the folks who in
their dialect called the lug-pole a gallows-balke called the pothooks
gallows-crooks. On these hooks pots and kettles could be hung at varying
heights over the fire. The iron swinging-crane was a Yankee invention of
a century after the first settlement, and it proved a convenient and
graceful substitute for the back-bar.

Some Dutch houses had an adaptation of a Southern method of housekeeping
in the use of a detached house called a slave-kitchen, where the meals
of the negro house and farm servants were cooked and served. The
slave-kitchen of the old Bergen homestead stood unaltered till within a
few years on Third Avenue in Brooklyn. It still exists in a dismantled
condition. Its picture plainly shows the stone ledges within the
fireplace, the curved iron lug-pole, and hanging pothooks and trammels.
With ample fire of hickory logs burning on the hearthstone, and the
varied array of primitive cooking-vessels steaming with savory fare, a
circle of laughing, black faces shining with the glowing firelight and
hungry anticipation, would make a "Dutch interior" of American form and
shaping as picturesque and artistic as any of Holland. The fireplace
itself sometimes went by the old English name, clavell-piece, as shown
by the letters of John Wynter, written from Maine in 1634 to his English
home. "The Chimney is large, with an oven at each end of him: he is so
large that wee can place our Cyttle within the Clavell-piece. Wee can
brew and bake and boyl our Cyttle all at once in him." Often a large
plate of iron, called the fire-back or fire-plate, was set at the back
of the chimney, where the constant and fierce fire crumbled brick and
split stone. These iron backs were often cast in a handsome design.

In New York the chimneys and fireplaces were Dutch in shape; the
description given by a woman traveller at the end of the seventeenth
century ran thus:--

     "The chimney-places are very droll-like: they have no jambs nor
     lintell as we have, but a flat grate, and there projects over it a
     lum in the form of the cat-and-clay lum, and commonly a muslin or
     ruffled pawn around it."

The "ruffled pawn" was a calico or linen valance which was hung on the
edge of the mantel-shelf, a pretty and cheerful fashion seen in some
English as well as Dutch homes.

Another Dutch furnishing, the alcove bedstead, much like a closet, seen
in many New York kitchens, was replaced in New England farm-kitchens by
the "turn-up" bedstead. This was a strong frame filled with a network of
rope which was fastened at the bed-head by hinges to the wall. By night
the foot of the bed rested on two heavy legs; by day the frame with its
bed furnishings was hooked up to the wall, and covered with homespun
curtains or doors. This was the sleeping-place of the master and
mistress of the house, chosen because the kitchen was the warmest room
in the house. One of these "turn-up" bedsteads which was used in the
Sheldon homestead until this century may be seen in Deerfield Memorial
Hall.

Over the fireplace and across the top of the room were long poles on
which hung strings of peppers, dried apples, and rings of dried pumpkin.
And the favorite resting-place for the old queen's-arm or fowling-piece
was on hooks over the kitchen fireplace.

On the pothooks and trammels hung what formed in some households the
costliest house-furnishing,--the pots and kettles. The Indians wished
their brass kettles buried with them as a precious possession, and the
settlers equally valued them; often these kettles were worth three
pounds apiece. In many inventories of the estates of the settlers the
brass-ware formed an important item. Rev. Thomas Hooker of Hartford had
brass-ware which, in the equalizing of values to-day, would be worth
three or four hundred dollars. The great brass and copper kettles often
held fifteen gallons. The vast iron pot--desired and beloved of every
colonist--sometimes weighed forty pounds, and lasted in daily use for
many years. All the vegetables were boiled together in these great pots,
unless some very particular housewife had a wrought-iron potato-boiler
to hold potatoes or any single vegetable in place within the vast
general pot.

Chafing-dishes and skimmers of brass and copper were also cheerful discs
to reflect the kitchen firelight.

Very little tin was seen, either for kitchen or table utensils. Governor
Winthrop had a few tin plates, and some Southern planters had tin pans,
others "tynnen covers." Tin pails were unknown; and the pails they did
own, either of wood, brass, or other sheet metal, had no bails, but were
carried by thrusting a stick through little ears on either side of the
pail. Latten ware was used instead of tin; it was a kind of brass. A
very good collection of century-old tinware is shown in the
illustration. By a curious chance this tinware lay unpacked for over
ninety years in the attic loft of a country warehouse, in the
packing-box, just as it was delivered from an English ship at the close
of the Revolution. The pulling down of the warehouse disclosed the box,
with its dated labels. The tin utensils are more gayly lacquered than
modern ones, otherwise they differ little from the tinware of to-day.

There was one distinct characteristic in the house-furnishing of olden
times which is lacking to-day. It was a tendency for the main body of
everything to set well up, on legs which were strong enough for adequate
support of the weight, yet were slender in appearance. To-day bureaus,
bedsteads, cabinets, desks, sideboards, come close to the floor;
formerly chests of drawers, Chippendale sideboards, four-post bedsteads,
dressing-cases, were set, often a foot high, in a tidy, cleanly fashion;
thus they could all be thoroughly swept under. This same peculiarity of
form extended to cooking-utensils. Pots and kettles had legs, as shown
in those hanging in the slave-kitchen fireplace; gridirons had legs,
skillets had legs; and further appliances in the shape of trivets,
which were movable frames, took the place of legs. The necessity for the
stilting up of cooking-utensils was a very evident one; it was necessary
to raise the body of the utensil above the ashes and coals of the open
fireplace. If the bed of coals and burning logs were too deep for the
skillet or pot-legs, then the utensil must be hung from above by the
ever-ready trammel.

Often in the corner of the fireplace there stood a group of trivets, or
three-legged stands, of varying heights, through which the exactly
desired proximity to the coals could be obtained.

Even toasting-forks, and similar frail utensils of wire or wrought iron,
stood on tall, spindling legs, or were carefully shaped to be set up on
trivets. They usually had, also, long, adjustable handles, which helped
to make endurable the blazing heat of the great logs. All such irons as
waffle-irons had far longer handles than are seen on any
cooking-utensils in these days of stoves and ranges, where the flames
are covered and the housewife shielded. Gridirons had long handles of
wood or iron, which could be fastened to the shorter stationary handles.
The two gridirons in the accompanying illustration are a century old.
The circular one was the oldest form. The oblong ones, with groove to
collect the gravy, did not vary in shape till our own day. Both have
indications of fittings for long handles, but the handles have vanished.
A long-handled frying-pan is seen hanging by the side of the
slave-kitchen fireplace.

An accompaniment of the kitchen fireplace, found, not in farmhouses, but
among luxury-loving town-folk, was the plate-warmer. They are seldom
named in inventories, and I know of but one of Revolutionary days, and
it is here shown. Similar ones are manufactured to-day; the legs,
perhaps, are shorter, but the general outline is the same.

An important furnishing of every fireplace was the andirons. In kitchen
fireplaces these were usually of iron, and the shape known as goose-neck
were common. Cob irons were the simplest form, and merely supported the
spit; sometimes they had hooks to hold a dripping-pan. A common name for
the kitchen andirons was fire-dogs; and creepers were low, small
andirons, usually used with the tall fire-dogs. The kitchen andirons
were simply for use to help hold the logs and cooking-utensils. But
other fireplaces had handsome fire-dogs of copper, brass, or cut steel,
cast or wrought in handsome devices. These were a pride and delight to
the housewife.

A primitive method of roasting a joint of meat or a fowl was by
suspending it in front of the fire by a strong hempen string tied to a
peg in the ceiling, while some one--usually an unwilling
child--occasionally turned the roast around. Sometimes the sole
turnspit was the housewife, who, every time she basted the roast, gave
the string a good twist, and thereafter it would untwist, and then twist
a little again, and so on until the vibration ceased, when she again
basted and started it. As the juices sometimes ran down in the roast and
left the upper part too dry, a "double string-roaster" was invented, by
which the equilibrium of the joint could be shifted. A jack was a
convenient and magnified edition of the primitive string, being a metal
suspensory machine. A still further glorification was the addition of a
revolving power which ran by clockwork and turned the roast with
regularity; this was known as a clock-jack. The one here shown hangs in
the fireplace in Deerfield Memorial Hall. A smoke-jack was run somewhat
irregularly by the pressure of smoke and the current of hot air in the
chimney. These were noisy and creaking and not regarded with favor by
old-fashioned cooks.

We are apt to think of the turnspit dog as a creature of European life,
but we had them here in America--little low, bow-legged, patient souls,
trained to run in a revolving cylinder and keep the roasting joint
a-turn before the fire. Mine host Clark of the State House Inn in
Philadelphia in the first half of the eighteenth century advertised in
Benjamin Franklin's _Pennsylvania Gazette_ that he had for sale "several
dogs and wheels, much preferable to any jacks for roasting any joints of
meat." I hope neither he nor any one else had many of these little
canine slaves.

A frequent accompaniment of the kitchen fireplace in the eighteenth
century, and a domestic luxury seen in well-to-do homes, was the various
forms of the "roasting-kitchen," or Dutch oven. These succeeded the
jacks; they were a box-like arrangement open on one side which when in
use was turned to the fire. Like other utensils of the day, they often
stood up on legs, to bring the open side before the blaze. A little door
at the back could be opened for convenience in basting the roast. These
kitchens came in various sizes for roasting birds or joints, and in them
bread was occasionally baked. The bake-kettle, which in some communities
was also called a Dutch oven, was preferred for baking bread. It was a
strong kettle, standing, of course, on stout, stumpy legs, and when in
use was placed among the hot coals and closely covered with a strong
metal, convex cover, on which coals were also closely heaped. Such
perfect rolls, such biscuit, such shortcake, as issued from the
heaped-up bake-kettle can never be equalled by other methods of cooking.

When the great stone chimney was built, there was usually placed on one
side of the kitchen fireplace a brick oven which had a smoke uptake into
the chimney--and-an ash-pit below. The great door was of iron. This oven
was usually heated once a week. A great fire of dry wood, called oven
wood, was kindled within it and kept burning fiercely for some hours.
This thoroughly heated all the bricks. The coals and ashes were then
swept out, the chimney draught closed, and the oven filled with brown
bread, pies, pots of beans, etc. Sometimes the bread was baked in pans,
sometimes it was baked in a great mass set on cabbage leaves or oak
leaves. In some towns an autumn harvest of oak leaves was gathered by
children to use throughout the winter. The leaves were strung on sticks.
This gathering was called going a-leafing.

By the oven side was always a long-handled shovel known as a peel or
slice, which sometimes had a rack or rest to hold it; this implement was
a necessity in order to place the food well within the glowing oven. The
peel was sprinkled with meal, great heaps of dough were placed thereon,
and by a dexterous twist they were thrown on the cabbage or oak leaves.
A bread peel was a universal gift to a bride; it was significant of
domestic utility and plenty, and was held to be luck-bearing. On
Thanksgiving week the great oven had a fire built in it every morning,
and every night it was well filled and closed till morning.

On one side of the kitchen often stood a dresser, on which was placed in
orderly rows the cheerful pewter and scant earthenware of the
household:--

      "----the room was bright
    With glimpses of reflected light,
    From plates that on the dresser shone."

In Dutch households plate-racks, spoon-racks, knife-racks,--all hanging
on the wall,--took the place of the New England dresser.

In the old Phillips farmhouse at Wickford, Rhode Island, is a splendid
chimney over twenty feet square. So much room does it occupy that there
is no central staircase, but little winding stairs ascend at three
corners of the house. In the vast fireplace an ox could literally have
been roasted. On each chimney-piece are hooks to hang firearms, and at
one side curious little drawers are set for pipes and tobacco. In some
Dutch houses in New York these tobacco shelves are in the entry, over
the front door, and a narrow flight of three or four steps leads up to
them. Hanging on a nail alongside the tobacco drawer, or shelf, would
usually be seen a pipe-tongs, or smoking-tongs. They were slender
little tongs, usually of iron or steel; with them the smoker lifted a
coal from the fireplace to light his pipe. The tongs owned and used by
Captain Joshua Wingate, of Hampton, New Hampshire, who lived from 1679
to 1769, are here shown. The handle is unlike any other I have seen,
having one end elongated, knobbed, and ingeniously bent S-shaped into
convenient form to press down the tobacco into the bowl of the pipe.
Other old-time pipe-tongs were in the form of lazy-tongs. A companion of
the pipe-tongs on the kitchen mantel was what was known as a
comfortier--a little brazier of metal in which small coals could be
handed about for pipe-lighting. An unusual luxury was a comfortier of
silver. These were found among the Dutch settlers.

The Pennsylvania Germans were the first to use stoves. These were of
various shapes. A curious one, seen in houses and churches, was of
sheet-metal, box-shaped; three sides were within the house, and the
fourth, with the stove door, outside the house. Thus what was really
the back of the stove projected into the room, and when the fire was fed
it was necessary for the tender to go out of doors. These German stoves
and hot-air drums, which heated the second story of the house, were ever
a fresh wonder to travellers of English birth and descent in
Pennsylvania. There is no doubt that their evident economy and comfort
suggested to Benjamin Franklin the "New Pennsylvania Fireplace," which
he invented in 1742, in which both wood and coal could be used, and
which was somewhat like the heating apparatus which we now call a
Franklin stove, or heater.

Thus German settlers had, in respect to heating, the most comfortable
homes of all the colonies. Among the English settlers the kitchen was,
too often, the only comfortable room in the house in winter weather.
Indeed, the discomforts and inconveniences of a colonial home could
scarcely be endured to-day; of course these culminated in the winter
time, when icy blasts blew fiercely down the great chimneys, and rattled
the loosely fitting windows. Children suffered bitterly in these cold
houses. The rooms were not warm three feet away from the blaze of the
fire. Cotton Mather and Judge Samuel Sewall both tell, in their diaries,
of the ink freezing in their pens as they wrote within the
chimney-side. One noted that, when a great fire was built on the hearth,
the sap forced out of the wood by the flames froze into ice at the end
of the logs. The bedrooms were seldom warmed, and had it not been for
the deep feather beds and heavy bed-curtains, would have been
unendurable. In Dutch and some German houses, with alcove bedsteads, and
sleeping on one feather bed, with another for cover, the Dutch settlers
could be far warmer than any English settlers, even in four-post
bedsteads curtained with woollen.

Water froze immediately if left standing in bedrooms. One diary, written
in Marshfield, Massachusetts, tells of a basin of water standing on the
bedroom hearth, in front of a blazing fire, in which the water froze
solid. President John Adams so dreaded the bleak New England winter and
the ill-warmed houses that he longed to sleep like a dormouse every
year, from autumn to spring. In the Southern colonies, during the fewer
cold days of the winter months, the temperature was not so low, but the
houses were more open and lightly built than in the North, and were
without cellars, and had fewer fireplaces; hence the discomfort from the
cold was as great, if not the positive suffering.

The first chilling entrance into the ice-cold bed of a winter bedroom
was sometimes mitigated by heating the inner sheets with a warming-pan.
This usually hung by the side of the kitchen fireplace, and when used
was filled with hot coals, and thrust within the bed, and constantly and
rapidly moved back and forth to keep from scorching the bed-linen. The
warming-pan was a circular metal pan about a foot in diameter, four or
five inches deep, with a long wooden handle and a perforated metal
cover, usually of copper or brass, which was kept highly polished, and
formed, as it hung on the wall, one of the cheerful kitchen discs to
reflect the light of the glowing fire. The warming-pan has been deemed
of sufficient decorative capacity to make it eagerly sought after by
collectors, and a great room of one of these collectors is hung entirely
around the four walls with a frieze of warming-pans.

Many of our New England poets have given us glimpses in rhyme of the
old-time kitchen. Lowell's well-known lines are vivid enough to bear
never-dying quotation:--

    "A fireplace filled the rooms one side
      With half a cord of wood in--
    There warn't no stoves (tell comfort died)
      To bake ye to a puddin'.

    "The wa'nut log shot sparkles out
      Towards the pootiest--bless her!
    An' little flames danced all about
      The chiny on the dresser.

    "Agin the crumbly crooknecks hung,
      An' in amongst 'em rusted
    The old queen's-arm that granther Young
      Fetched back from Concord busted."

To me the true essence of the old-time fireside is found in Whittier's
_Snow-Bound_. The very chimney, fireplace, and hearthstone of which his
beautiful lines were written, the kitchen of Whittier's boyhood's home,
at East Haverhill, Massachusetts, is shown in the accompanying
illustration. It shows a swinging crane. His description of the "laying
the fire" can never be equalled by any prose:--

    "We piled with care our nightly stack
    Of wood against the chimney back--
    The oaken log, green, huge, and thick,
    And on its top the stout back-stick;
    The knotty fore-stick laid apart,
    And filled between with curious art
    The ragged brush; then hovering near,
    We watched the first red blaze appear,
    Heard the sharp crackle, caught the gleam
    On whitewashed wall and sagging beam,
    Until the old, rude-furnished room
    Burst, flower-like, into rosy bloom."

No greater picture of homely contentment could be shown than the
following lines:--

    "Shut in from all the world without,
    We sat the clean-winged hearth about,
    Content to let the north wind roar
    In baffled rage at pane and door,
    While the red logs before us beat
    The frost-line back with tropic heat;
    And ever, when a louder blast
    Shook beam and rafter as it passed,
    The merrier up its roaring draught
    The great throat of the chimney laughed.
    The house dog on his paws outspread
    Laid to the fire his drowsy head,
    The cat's dark silhouette on the wall
    A couchant tiger's seemed to fall;
    And, for the winter fireside meet,
    Between the andirons' straddling feet
    The mug of cider simmered slow,
    And apples sputtered in a row.
    And, close at hand, the basket stood
    With nuts from brown October's woods.
    What matter how the night behaved!
    What matter how the north wind raved!
    Blow high, blow low, not all its snow
    Could quench our hearth-fire's ruddy glow."

Nor can the passing of years dim the ruddy glow of that hearth-fire, nor
the charm of the poem. The simplicity of metre, the purity of wording,
the gentle sadness of some of its expressions, make us read between the
lines the deep and affectionate reminiscence with which it was written.




CHAPTER IV

THE SERVING OF MEALS


Perhaps no greater difference exists between any mode of the olden times
and that of to-day, than can be seen in the manner of serving the meals
of the family. In the first place, the very dining-table of the
colonists was not like our present ones; it was a long and narrow board,
sometimes but three feet wide, with no legs attached to it. It was laid
on supports or trestles, shaped usually something like a saw-horse. Thus
it was literally a board, and was called a table-board, and the linen
cover used at meals was not called a tablecloth, but a board-cloth or
board-clothes.

As smoothly sawed and finished boards were not so plentiful at first in
the colonies as might naturally be thought when we remember the vast
encircling forests, all such boards were carefully treasured, and used
many times to avoid sawing others by the tedious and wearying process of
pit-sawing. Hence portions of packing-boxes, or chests which had carried
stores from England to the colonies, were made into table-boards. One
such oaken table-board, still in existence, has on the under side in
quaint lettering the name and address of the Boston settler to whom the
original packing-box was sent in 1638.

The old-time board-cloth was in no way inferior in quality or whiteness
to our present table-linen; for we know how proud colonial wives and
daughters were of the linen of their own spinning, weaving, and
bleaching. The linen tablecloth was either of holland, huckaback,
dowlas, osnaburg, or lockram--all heavy and comparatively coarse
materials--or of fine damask, just as to-day; some of the handsome
board-cloths were even trimmed with lace.

The colonists had plenty of napkins; more, as a rule, than families of
corresponding means and station own to-day. They had need of them, for
when America was first settled forks were almost unknown to English
people--being used for eating in luxurious Italy alone, where travellers
having seen and found them useful and cleanly, afterwards introduced
them into England. So hands had to be constantly employed for holding
food, instead of the forks we now use, and napkins were therefore as
constantly necessary. The first fork brought to America was for Governor
John Winthrop, in Boston, in 1633, and it was in a leather case with a
knife and a bodkin. If the governor ate with a fork at the table, he
was doubtless the only person in the colony who did so. Thirty or forty
years later a few two-tined iron and silver forks were brought across
the water, and used in New York and Virginia, as well as Massachusetts;
and by the end of the century they had come into scant use at the tables
of persons of wealth and fashion. The first mention of a fork in
Virginia is in an inventory dated 1677; this was of a single fork. The
salt-cellar, or saler, as it was first called, was the centrepiece of
the table--"Sett in the myddys of the tabull," says an old treatise on
laying the table. It was often large and high, of curious device in
silver, and was then called a standing salt. Guests of honor were seated
"above the salt," that is, near the end of the table where sat the host
and hostess side by side; while children and persons who were not of
much dignity or account as guests were placed "below the salt," that is,
below the middle of the table.

There is owned by Harvard University, and here shown in an
illustration, "a great silver salt" given to the college in 1644, when
the new seat of learning was but eight years old. At the table it
divided graduates, the faculty, and such, from the undergraduates. It
was valued at *5 1s. 3d., at five shillings an ounce, which was
equal to a hundred dollars to-day; a rich gift, which shows to me the
profound affection of the settlers for the new college. It is inscribed
with the name of the giver, Mr. Richard Harris. It is of simple English
design well known during that century, and made in various sizes. There
is no doubt that many of similar pattern, though not so heavy or so
rich, were seen on the tables of substantial colonists. They are named
in many wills. Often a small projecting arm was attached to one side,
over which a folded napkin could be thrown to be used as a cover; for
the salt-cellar was usually kept covered, not only to preserve
cleanliness, but in earlier days to prevent the ready introduction of
poison.

There are some very entertaining and curious old English books which
were written in the sixteenth century to teach children and young
rustics correct and elegant manners at the table, and also helpful ways
in which to serve others. These books are called _The Babees Boke_, _The
Boke of Nurture_, _The Boke of Curteseye_, etc., and with the exception
of variations in the way of serving a dinner, and a few obsolete
customs, and in the names and shapes and materials of the different
dishes, plates, etc., used at the table, these books are just as
instructive and sensible to-day as then. From them we learn that the
only kind of table furnishings used at that time were cups to drink out
of; spoons and knives to eat with; chafing-dishes to serve hot food;
chargers for display and for serving large quantities of food;
salt-cellars, and trenchers for use as plates. There were very few other
table appointments used on any English table, either humble or great,
when the Pilgrims landed at Plymouth.

One of the most important articles for setting the table was the
trencher. These were made of wood, and often were only a block of wood,
about ten or twelve inches square and three or four deep, hollowed down
into a sort of bowl in the middle. In this the food was
placed,--porridge, meat, vegetables, etc. Each person did not have even
one of these simple dishes; usually two children, or a man and his wife,
ate out of one trencher. This was a custom in England for many years;
and some very great people, a duke and his wife, not more than a century
and a half ago, sat side by side at the table and ate out of one plate
to show their unity and affection. It is told of an old Connecticut
settler, a deacon, that as he had a wood-turning mill, he thought he
would have a trencher apiece for his children. So he turned a sufficient
number of round trenchers in his mill. For this his neighbors deemed him
deeply extravagant and putting on too many airs, both as to quantity and
quality, since square trenchers, one for use by two persons, were good
enough for any one, even a deacon. So great a warrior and so prominent a
man in the colony as Miles Standish used wooden trenchers at the table,
as also did all the early governors. Nor did they disdain to name them
in their wills, as valued household possessions. For many years college
boys at Harvard ate out of wooden trenchers at the college mess-table.

I have seen a curious old table top, or table-board, which permitted
diners seated at it to dispense with trenchers or plates. It was of
heavy oak about six inches thick, and at intervals of about eighteen
inches around its edge were scooped out deep, bowl-shaped holes about
ten inches in diameter, in which each individual's share of the dinner
was placed. After each meal the top was lifted off the trestles,
thoroughly washed and dried, and was ready for the next meal.

Poplar-wood is an even, white, and shining wood. Until the middle of
this century poplar-wood trenchers and plates were used on the table in
Vermont, and were really attractive dishes. From earliest days the
Indians made and sold many bowls and trenchers of maple-wood knots. One
of these bowls, owned by King Philip, is at the rooms of the
Massachusetts Historical Society in Boston. Old wooden trenchers and
"Indian bowls" can be seen at the Memorial Hall in Deerfield. Bottles
were made also of wood, and drinking-cups and "noggins," which were a
sort of mug with a handle. Wood furnished many articles for the table to
the colonist, just as it did in later days on our Western frontiers,
where trenchers of wood and plates of birch-bark were seen in every
log-cabin.

The word tankard was originally applied to a heavy and large vessel of
wood banded with metal, in which to carry water. Smaller wooden drinking
tankards were subsequently made and used throughout Europe, and were
occasionally brought here by the colonists. The plainly shaped wooden
tankard, made of staves and hoops and here shown, is from the collection
at Deerfield Memorial Hall. It was found in the house of Rev. Eli Moody.
These commonplace tankards of staves were not so rare as the beautiful
carved and hooped tankard which is here pictured, and which is in the
collection of Mrs. Samuel Bowne Duryea, of Brooklyn. I have seen a few
other quaintly carved ones, black with age, in American families of
Huguenot descent; these were apparently Swiss carvings.

The chargers, or large round platters found on every dining-table, were
of pewter. Some were so big and heavy that they weighed five or six
pounds apiece. Pewter is a metal never seen for modern table
furnishing, or domestic use in any form to-day; but in colonial times
what was called a garnish of pewter, that is, a full set of pewter
platters, plates, and dishes, was the pride of every good housekeeper,
and also a favorite wedding gift. It was kept as bright and shining as
silver. One of the duties of children was to gather a kind of horse-tail
rush which grew in the marshes, and because it was used to scour pewter,
was called scouring-rush.

Pewter bottles of various sizes were sent to the Massachusetts Bay
Colony, in 1629. Governor Endicott had one, but they were certainly far
from common. Dram cups, wine mugs, and funnels of pewter were also
occasionally seen, but scarcely formed part of ordinary table
furnishings. Metheglin cans and drinking-mugs of pewter were found on
nearly every table. Pewter was used until this century in the wealthiest
homes, both in the North and South, and was preferred by many who owned
rich china. Among the pewter-lovers was the Revolutionary patriot, John
Hancock, who hated the clatter of the porcelain plates.

Porringers of pewter, and occasionally of silver, were much used at the
table, chiefly for children to eat from. These were a pretty little
shallow circular dish with a flat-pierced handle. Some had a "fish-tail"
handle; these are said to be Dutch. These porringers were in many
sizes, from tiny little ones two inches in diameter to those eight or
nine inches across. When not in use many housekeepers kept them hanging
on hooks on the edge of a shelf, where they formed a pretty and cheerful
decoration. The poet Swift says:--

    "The porringers that in a row
    Hung high and made a glittering show."

It should be stated that the word porringer, as used by English
collectors, usually refers to a deep cup with a cover and two handles,
while what we call porringers are known to these collectors as
bleeding-basins or tasters. Here we apply the term taster, or
wine-taster, to a small, shallow silver cup with bosses in the bottom to
reflect the light and show the color and quality of wine. I have often
seen the item wine-taster in colonial inventories and wills, but never
bleeding-basin; while porringers were almost universal on such lists.
Some families had a dozen. I have found fifteen in one old New England
farmhouse. The small porringers are sometimes called posnets, which is
an old-time word that may originally have referred to a posset-cup.

"Spoons," says the learned arch*ologist, Laborde, "if not as old as the
world, are as old as soup." All the colonists had spoons, and certainly
all needed them, for at that time much of their food was in the form of
soup and "spoon-meat," such as had to be eaten with spoons when there
were no forks. Meat was usually made into hashes or ragouts; thick stews
and soups with chopped vegetables and meats were common, as were
hotch-pots. The cereal foods, which formed so large a part of English
fare in the New World, were more frequently boiled in porridge than
baked in loaves. Many of the spoons were of pewter. Worn-out pewter
plates and dishes could be recast into new pewter spoons. The moulds
were of wood or iron. The spoon mould of one of the first settlers of
Greenfield, Massachusetts, named Martindale, is here shown with a
pewter spoon. In this mould all his spoons and those of his neighbors
were cast. It is now in the Deerfield Memorial Hall.

A still more universal spoon material was alchymy, also called occamy,
alcamy, arkamy, etc., a metal never used now, which was made of a
mixture of pan-brass and arsenicum. Wooden spoons, too, were always
seen. In Pennsylvania and New York laurel was called spoonwood, because
the Indians made pretty white spoons from that wood to sell to the
colonists. Horn was an appropriate and available material for spoons.
Many Indian tribes excelled as they do to-day in the making of horn
spoons. The vulgar affirmation, "By the great horn spoon," has
perpetuated their familiar use.

Every family of any considerable possessions or owning good household
furnishings had a few silver spoons; nearly every person owned at least
one. At the time America was settled the common form of silver spoon in
England had what was known as a baluster stem and a seal head; the assay
mark was in the inner part of the bowl. But the fashion was just
changing, and a new and much altered form was introduced which was made
in large numbers until the opening reign of George I. This shape was the
very one without doubt in which many of the spoons of the first
colonists were made; and wherever such spoons are found, if they are
genuine antiques, they may safely be assigned a date earlier than 1714.
The handle was flat and broad at the end, where it was cleft in three
points which were turned up, that is, not toward the back of the spoon.
This was known as the "hind's-foot handle." The bowl was a perfectly
regular ellipse and was strengthened by continuing the handle in a
narrow tongue or rat-tail, which ran down the back of the bowl. The
succeeding fashion, in the early part of the eighteenth century, had a
longer elliptical bowl. The end of the handle was rounded and turned up
at the end, and it had a high sharp ridge down the middle. This was
known as the old English shape, and was in common use for half a
century. About the period of our Revolutionary War a shape nearly like
the one in ordinary present use became the mode; the bowl became
egg-shaped, and the end of the handle was turned down instead of up. The
rat-tail, which extended down the back of the bowl, was shortened into a
drop. Apostle spoons, and monkey spoons for extraordinary use were
occasionally made, and a few are still preserved; examples of five types
of spoons are shown from the collection of Edward Holbrook, Esq., of New
York.

Families of consequence had usually a few pieces of silver besides their
spoons and the silver salt. Some kind of a drinking-cup was the usual
form. Persons of moderate means often owned a silver cup. I have seen in
early inventories and lists the names of a large variety of silver
vessels: tankards, beer-bowls, beakers, flagons, wine cups, wine bowls,
wine cans, tasters, caudle-cups, posset-cups, dram-cups, punch-bowls,
tumblers, mugs, dram bottles, two-eared cups, and flasks. Virginians and
Marylanders in the seventeenth century had much more silver than New
Englanders. Some Dutch merchants had ample amounts. It was deemed a
good and safe investment for spare money. Bread-baskets, salvers,
muffineers, chafing-dishes, casters, milk pitchers, sugar boxes,
candlesticks, appear in inventories at the end of the century. A tankard
or flagon, even if heavy and handsome, would be placed on the table for
every-day use; the other pieces were usually set on the cupboard's head
for ornament.

The handsome silver tankard owned by Sarah Jansen de Rapelje is here
shown. She was the first child of European parents born in New
Netherland. The tankard was a wedding gift from her husband, and a Dutch
wedding scene is graven on the lid.

There was a great desire for glass, a rare novelty to many persons at
the date of colonization. The English were less familiar with its use
than settlers who came from Continental Europe. The establishment of
glass factories was attempted in early days in several places, chiefly
to manufacture sheet-glass, but with slight success. Little glass was
owned in the shape of drinking-vessels, none used generally on the
table, I think, during the first few years. Glass bottles were certainly
a great rarity, and were bequeathed with special mention in wills, and
they are the only form of glass vessel named. The earliest glass for
table use was greenish in color, like coarse bottle glass, and poor in
quality, sometimes decorated in crude designs in a few colors. Bristol
glass, in the shape of mugs and plates, was next seen. It was opaque, a
milky white color, and was coarsely decorated with vitrifiable colors in
a few lines of red, green, yellow, or black, occasionally with initials,
dates, or Scriptural references.

Though shapes were varied, and the number was generally plentiful, there
was no attempt made to give separate drinking-cups of any kind to each
individual at the table. Blissfully ignorant of the existence or
presence of microbes, germs, and bacteria, our sturdy and unsqueamish
forbears drank contentedly in succession from a single vessel, which
was passed from hand to hand, and lip to lip, around the board. Even
when tumbler-shaped glasses were seen in many houses,--flip-glasses,
they were called,--they were of communal size,--some held a gallon,--and
all drank from the same glass. The great punch-bowl, not a very handy
vessel to handle when filled with punch, was passed up and down as
freely as though it were a loving-cup, and all drank from its brim. At
college tables, and even at tavern boards, where table neighbors might
be strangers, the flowing bowl and foaming tankard was passed serenely
from one to another, and replenished to pass again.

Leather was perhaps the most curious material used. Pitchers, bottles,
and drinking-cups were made of it. Great jugs of heavy black leather,
waxed and bound, and tipped with silver, were used to hold metheglin,
ale, and beer, and were a very substantial, and at times a very handsome
vessel. The finest examples I have ever seen are here represented. The
stitches and waxed thread at the base and on the handles can plainly be
perceived. They are bound with a rich silver band, and have a silver
shield bearing a date of gift to Samuel Brenton in 1778; but they are
probably a century older than that date. They are the property by
inheritance of Miss Rebecca Shaw, aged ninety-six years, of Wickford,
Rhode Island.

The use of these great leather jacks, in a clumsier form than here
shown, led to the amusing mistake of a French traveller, that the
English drank their ale out of their boots. These leather jugs were
commonly called black jacks, and the larger ones were bombards. Giskin
was still another and rarer name.

Drinking-cups were sometimes made of horn. A handsome one has been used
since colonial days on Long Island for "quince drink," a potent mixture
of hot rum, sugar, and quince marmalade, or preserves. It has a base of
silver, a rim of silver, and a cover of horn tipped with silver. A
stirrup-cup of horn, tipped with silver, was used to "speed the parting
guest." Occasionally the whole horn, in true medi*val fashion, was used
as a drinking-cup. Often they were carved with considerable skill, as
the beautiful ones in the collection of Mr. A. G. Richmond, of
Canajoharie, New York.

Gourds were plentiful on the farm, and gathered with care, that the
hard-shelled fruit might be shaped into simple drinking-cups. In
Elizabeth's time silver cups were made in the shape of these gourds. The
ships that brought "lemmons and raysins of the sun" from the tropics to
the colonists, also brought cocoanuts. Since the thirteenth century the
shells of cocoanuts have been mounted with silver feet and "covercles"
in a goblet shape, and been much sought after by Englishmen. Mounted in
pewter, and sometimes in silver, or simply shaped with a wooden handle
attached, the shell of the cocoanut was a favorite among the English
settlers. To this day one of the cocoanut-shell cups, or dippers, is a
favorite drinking-cup of many. A handsome cocoanut goblet, richly
mounted in silver, is shown in the accompanying illustration. It was
once the property of the Revolutionary patriot, John Hancock, and is now
in the custody of the Bostonian Society, at the Old State House, in
Boston, Massachusetts.

Popular drinking-mugs of the English, from which specially they drank
their mead, metheglin, and ale, were the stoneware jugs which were made
in Germany and England, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, in
great numbers. An English writer in 1579, spoke of the English custom of
drinking from "pots of earth, of sundry colors and moulds, whereof many
are garnished with silver, or leastwise with pewter." Such a piece of
stoneware is the oldest authenticated drinking-jug in this country,
which was brought here and used by English colonists. It was the
property of Governor John Winthrop, who came to Boston in 1630, and now
belongs to the American Antiquarian Society, in Worcester,
Massachusetts. It stands eight inches in height, is apparently of German
Gresware, and is heavily mounted in silver. The lid is engraved with a
quaint design of Adam and Eve and the tempting serpent in the
apple-tree. It was a gift to John Winthrop's father from his sister,
Lady Mildmay, in 1607, and was then, and is still now, labelled, "a
stone Pot tipped and covered with a Silver Lydd." Many other Boston
colonists had similar "stone juggs," "fflanders juggs," "tipt juggs."
What were known as "Fulham juggs" were also much prized. The most
interesting ones are the Georgius Rex jugs, those marked with a crown,
the initials G. R., or a medallion head of the first of the English
Georges. I know one of these jugs which has a Revolutionary bullet
imbedded in its tough old side, and is not even cracked. Many of them
had pewter or silver lids, which are now missing. Some have the curious
hound handle which was so popular with English potters.

There was no china in common use on the table, and little owned even by
persons of wealth throughout the seventeenth century, either in England
or America. Delft ware was made in several factories in Holland at the
time the Dutch settled in New Netherland; but even in the towns of its
manufacture it was not used for table ware. The pieces were usually of
large size, what were called state pieces, for cabinet and decorative
purposes. The Dutch settlers, however, had "purslin cupps" and earthen
dishes in considerable quantities toward the end of the century. The
earthen was possibly Delft ware, and the "Purslin" India china, which by
that time was largely imported to Holland. Some Portuguese and Spanish
pottery was imported, but was not much desired, as it was ill fired and
perishable. It was not until Revolutionary times that china was a common
table furnishing; then it began to crowd out pewter. The sudden and
enormous growth of East India commerce, and the vast cargoes of Chinese
pottery and porcelain wares brought to American ports soon gave ample
china to every housewife. In the Southern colonies beautiful isolated
pieces of porcelain, such as vast punch-bowls, often were found in the
homes of opulent planters; but there, as in the North, the first china
for general table use was the handleless tea-cups, usually of some
Canton ware, which crept with the fragrant herb into every woman's
heart--both welcome Oriental waifs.

It may well be imagined that this long narrow table--with a high
salt-cellar in the middle, with clumsy wooden trenchers for plates, with
round pewter platters heaped high with the stew of meat and vegetables,
with a great noggin or two of wood, a can of pewter, or a silver tankard
to drink from, with leather jacks to hold beer or milk, with many wooden
or pewter and some silver spoons, but no forks, no glass, no china, no
covered dishes, no saucers--did not look much like our dinner tables
to-day.

Even the seats were different; there were seldom chairs or stools for
each person. A long narrow bench without a back, called a form, was
placed on each side of the table. Children in many households were not
allowed to sit, even on these uncomfortable forms, while eating. Many
times they had to stand by the side of the table during the entire meal;
in old-fashioned families that uncomfortable and ungracious custom
lasted till this century. I know of children not fifty years ago
standing thus at all meals at the table of one of the Judges of the
Supreme Court. He had a bountiful table, was a hospitable entertainer
and well-known epicure; but children sat not at his board. Each stood at
his own place and had to behave with decorum and eat in entire silence.
In some families children stood behind their parents and other grown
persons, and food was handed back to them from the table--so we are
told. This seems closely akin to throwing food to an animal, and must
have been among people of very low station and social manners.

In other houses they stood at a side-table; and, trencher in hand, ran
over to the great table to be helped to more food when their first
supply was eaten.

The chief thought on the behavior of children at the table, which must
be inferred from all the accounts we have of those times is that they
were to eat in silence, as fast as possible (regardless of indigestion),
and leave the table as speedily as might be. In a little book called _A
Pretty Little Pocket Book_, printed in America about the time of the
Revolution, I found a list of rules for the behavior of children at the
table at that date. They were ordered never to seat themselves at the
table until after the blessing had been asked, and their parents told
them to be seated. They were never to ask for anything on the table;
never to speak unless spoken to; always to break the bread, not to bite
into a whole slice; never to take salt except with a clean knife; not to
throw bones under the table. One rule read: "Hold not thy knife upright,
but sloping; lay it down at right hand of the plate, with end of blade
on the plate." Another, "Look not earnestly at any other person that is
eating." When children had eaten all that had been given them, if they
were "moderately satisfied," they were told to leave at once the table
and room.

When the table-board described herein was set with snowy linen cloth and
napkins, and ample fare, it had some compensations for what modern
luxuries it lacked, some qualifications for inducing contentment
superior even to our beautiful table-settings. There was nothing
perishable in its entire furnishing: no frail and costly china or glass,
whose injury and destruction by clumsy or heedless servants would make
the heart of the housekeeper ache, and her anger nourish the germs of
ptomaines within her. There was little of intrinsic value to watch and
guard and worry about. There was little to make extra and difficult
work,--no glass to wash with anxious care, no elaborate silver to
clean,--only a few pieces of pewter to polish occasionally. It was all
so easy and so simple when compared with the complex and varied
paraphernalia and accompaniments of serving of meals to-day, that it was
like Arcadian simplicity.

In Virginia the table furnishings were similar to those in New England;
but there were greater contrasts in table appointments. There was more
silver, and richer food; but the negro servants were so squalid, clumsy,
and uncouth that the incongruity made the meals very surprising and, at
times, repellent.

When dinners of some state were given in the larger towns, the table was
not set or served like the formal dinner of to-day, for all the sweets,
pastry, vegetables, and meats were placed on the table together, with a
grand "conceit" for the ornament in the centre. At one period, when
pudding was part of the dinner, it was served first. Thus an old-time
saying is explained, which always seemed rather meaningless, "I came
early--in pudding-time." There was considerable formality in portioning
out the food, especially in carving, which was regarded as much more
than a polite accomplishment, even as an art. I have seen a list of
sixty or seventy different terms in carving to be applied with exactness
to different fish, fowl, and meats. An old author says:--

     "How all must regret to hear some Persons, even of quality say,
     'pray cut up that Chicken or Hen,' or 'Halve that Plover'; not
     considering how indiscreetly they talk, when the proper Terms are,
     'break that Goose,' 'thrust that Chicken,' 'spoil that Hen,'
     'pierce that Plover.' If they are so much out in common Things, how
     much more would they be with Herons, Cranes, and Peacocks."

It must have required good judgment and constant watchfulness never to
say "spoil that Hen," when it was a chicken; or else be thought
hopelessly ill-bred.

There were few state dinners, however, served in the American colonies,
even in the large cities; there were few dinners, even, of many courses;
not always were there many dishes. There were still seen in many homes
more primitive forms of serving and eating meals, than were indicated by
the lack of individual drinking-cups, the mutual use of a trencher, or
even the utilization of the table top as a plate. In some homes an
abundant dish, such as a vast bowl of suppawn and milk, a pumpkin stewed
whole in its shell, or a savory and mammoth hotchpot was set, often
smoking hot, on the table-board; and from this well-filled receptacle
each hungry soul, armed with a long-handled pewter or wooden spoon,
helped himself, sometimes ladling his great spoonfuls into a trencher
or bowl, for more moderate and reserved after-consumption,--just as
frequently eating directly from the bountiful dish with a spoon that
came and went from dish to mouth without reproach, or thought of
ill-manners. The accounts of travellers in all the colonies frequently
tell of such repasts; some termed it eating in the fashion of the Dutch.
The reports of old settlers often recall the general dish; and some very
distinguished persons joined in the circle around it, and were glad to
get it. Variety was of little account, compared to quantity and quality.
A cheerful hospitality and grateful hearts filled the hollow place of
formality and elegance.

By the time that newspapers began to have advertisements in them--about
1750--we find many more articles for use at the table; but often the
names were different from those used to-day. Our sugar bowls were called
sugar boxes and sugar pots; milk pitchers were milk jugs, milk ewers,
and milk pots. Vegetable dishes were called basins, pudding dishes
twifflers, small cups were called sneak cups.

We have still to-day a custom much like one of olden times, when we have
the crumbs removed from our tables after a course at dinner. Then a
voider was passed around the table near the close of the dinner, and
into it the persons at the table placed their trenchers, napkins, and
the crumbs from the table. The voider was a deep wicker, wooden, or
metal basket. In the _Boke of Nurture_, written in 1577, are these
lines:--

    "When meate is taken quyte awaye
      And Voyders in presence,
    Put you your trenchour in the same
      and all your resydence.
    Take you with your napkin & knyfe
      the croms that are fore the,
    In the Voyder your Napkin leave
      for it is a curtesye."




CHAPTER V

FOOD FROM FOREST AND SEA


Though all the early explorers and travellers came to America eager to
find precious and useful metals, they did not discover wealth and
prosperity underground in mines, but on the top of the earth, in the
woods and fields. To the forests they turned for food, and they did not
turn in vain. Deer were plentiful everywhere, and venison was offered by
the Indians to the first who landed from the ships. Some families lived
wholly on venison for nine months of the year. In Virginia were vast
numbers of red and fallow deer, the latter like those of England, except
in the smaller number of branches of the antlers. They were so devoid of
fear as to remain undisturbed by the approach of men; a writer of that
day says: "Hard by the Fort two hundred in one herd have been usually
observed." They were destroyed ruthlessly by a system of fire-hunting,
in which tracts of forests were burned over, by starting a continuous
circle of fire miles around, which burnt in toward the centre of the
circle; thus the deer were driven into the middle, and hundreds were
killed. This miserable, wholesale slaughter was not for venison, but for
the sake of the hides, which were very valuable. They were used to make
the durable and suitable buckskin breeches and jackets so much worn by
the settlers; and they were also exported to Europe in large numbers. A
tax was placed on hides for the support of the beloved William and Mary
College.

In Georgia, in 1735, the Indians sold a deer for sixpence. Deer were
just as abundant in the more Northern colonies. At Albany a stag was
sold readily by the Indians for a jack-knife or a few iron nails. The
deer in winter came and fed from the hog-pens of Albany swine. Even in
1695, a quarter of venison could be bought in New York City for
ninepence. At the first Massachusetts Thanksgiving, in 1621, the Indians
brought in five deer to the colonists for their feast. That year there
was also "great store of wild turkies." These beautiful birds of gold
and purple bronze were at first plentiful everywhere, and were of great
weight, far larger than our domestic turkeys to-day. They came in flocks
of a hundred, Evelyn says of three hundred on the Chesapeake, and they
weighed thirty or forty pounds each: Josselyn says he saw one weighing
sixty pounds. William Penn wrote that turkeys weighing thirty pounds
apiece sold in his day and colony for a shilling only. They were shy
creatures and fled inland from the white man, and by 1690 were rarely
shot near the coast of New England, though in Georgia, in 1733, they
were plentiful enough and cheap enough to sell for fourpence apiece.
Flights of pigeons darkened the sky, and broke down the limbs of trees
on which they lighted. From Maine to Virginia these vast flocks were
seen. Some years pigeons were so plentiful that they were sold for a
penny a dozen in Boston. Pheasant, partridge, woodcock, and quail
abounded, plover, snipe, and curlew were in the marsh-woods; in fact, in
Virginia every bird familiar to Englishmen at home was found save
peacock and domestic fowl.

Wild hare and squirrels were so many that they became pests, and so much
grain was eaten by them that bounties were paid in many towns for the
heads of squirrels. County treasuries were exhausted by these premiums.
The Swedish traveller, Kalm, said that in Pennsylvania in one year,
1749, *8000 was paid out for heads of black and gray squirrels, at
threepence a head, which would show that over six hundred thousand were
killed.

From the woods came a sweet food-store, one specially grateful when
sugar was so scarce and so high-priced,--wild honey, which the colonists
eagerly gathered everywhere from hollow tree-trunks. Curiously enough,
the traveller, Kalm, insisted that bees were not native in America, but
were brought over by the English; that the Indians had no name for them
and called them English flies.

Governor Berkeley of Virginia, writing in 1706, called the maple the
sugar-tree; he said:--

     "The Sugar-Tree yields a kind of Sap or Juice which by boiling is
     made into Sugar. This Juice is drawn out, by wounding the Trunk of
     the Tree, and placing a Receiver under the Wound. It is said that
     the Indians make one Pound of Sugar out of eight Pounds of the
     Liquor. It is bright and moist with a full large Grain, the
     Sweetness of it being like that of good Muscovada."

The sugar-making season was ever hailed with delight by the boys of the
household in colonial days, who found in this work in the woods a
wonderful outlet for the love of wild life which was strong in them. It
had in truth a touch of going a-gypsying, if any work as hard as
sugaring-off could have anything common with gypsy life. The maple-trees
were tapped as soon as the sap began to run in the trunk and showed at
the end of the twigs; this was in late winter if mild, or in the
earliest spring. A notch was cut in the trunk of the tree at a
convenient height from the ground, usually four or five feet, and the
running sap was guided by setting in the notch a semicircular basswood
spout cut and set with a special tool called a tapping-gauge. In earlier
days the trees were "boxed," that is, a great gash cut across the side
and scooped out and down to gather the sap. This often proved fatal to
the trees, and was abandoned. A trough, usually made of a butternut log
about three feet long, was dug out, Indian fashion, and placed under the
end of the spout. These troughs were made deep enough to hold about ten
quarts. In later years a hole was bored in the tree with an augur; and
sap-buckets were used instead of troughs.

Sometimes these troughs were left in distant sugar-camps from year to
year, turned bottom side up, through the summer and winter. It was more
thrifty and tidy, however, to carry them home and store them. When this
was done, the men and boys began work by drawing the troughs and spouts
and provisions to the woods on hand-sleds. Sometimes a mighty man took
in a load on his back. It is told of John Alexander of Brattleboro,
Vermont, that he once went into camp _upon snowshoes_ carrying for three
miles one five-pail iron kettle, two sap-buckets, an axe and trappings,
a knapsack, four days' provisions, and a gun and ammunition.

The master of ceremonies--the owner of the camp--selected the trees and
drove the spouts, while the boys placed the troughs. Then the snow had
to be shovelled away on a level spot about eighteen or twenty feet
square, in which strong forked sticks were set twelve feet apart. Or the
ground was chosen so that two small low-spreading and strong trees could
be trimmed and used as forks. A heavy green stick was placed across from
fork to fork, and the sugaring-off kettles, sometimes five in number,
hung on it. Then dry wood had to be gathered for the fires; hard work it
was to keep them constantly supplied. It was often cut a year in
advance. As the sap collected in the troughs it was gathered in pails or
buckets which, hung on a sap-yoke across the neck, were brought to the
kettles and the sap set a-boiling down. When there was a "good run of
sap," it was usually necessary to stay in the camp over night. Many
times the campers stayed several nights. As the "good run" meant milder
weather, a night or two was not a bitter experience; indeed, I have
never heard any one speak nor seen any account of a night spent in a
sugar-camp except with keen expressions of delight. If possible, the
time was chosen during a term of moonlight; the snow still covered the
fields and its pure shining white light could be seen through the trees.

    "God makes sech nights, so white and still
      Fer's you can look and listen.
    Moonlight an' snow, on field and hill,
      All silence and all glisten."

The great silence, broken only by steady dropping of the sap, the
crackle of blazing brush, and the occasional hooting of startled owls;
the stars seen singly overhead through the openings of the trees,
shining down the dark tunnel as bright as though there were no moon;
above all, the clearness and sweetness of the first atmosphere of
spring,--gave an exaltation of the senses and spirit which the country
boy felt without understanding, and indeed without any formulated
consciousness.

If the camp were near enough to any group of farmhouses to have
visitors, the last afternoon and evening in camp was made a country
frolic. Great sled-loads of girls came out to taste the new sugar, to
drop it into the snow to candy, and to have an evening of fun.

Long ere the full riches of the forests were tested the colonists turned
to another food-supply,--the treasures of the sea.

The early voyagers and colonists came to the coasts of the New World to
find gold and furs. The gold was not found by them nor their children's
children in the land which is now the United States, till over two
centuries had passed from the time of the settlement, and the gold-mines
of California were opened. The furs were at first found and profitably
gathered, but the timid fur-bearing animals were soon exterminated near
the settlements. There was, however, a vast wealth ready for the
colonists on the coast of the New World which was greater than gold,
greater than furs; a wealth ever-obtainable, ever-replenished,
ever-useful, ever-salable; it was _fish_. The sea, the rivers, the
lakes, teemed with fish. Not only was there food for the settlers, but
for the whole world, and all Europe desired fish to eat. The ships of
the early discoverer, Gosnold, in 1602, were "pestered with cod."
Captain John Smith, the acute explorer, famous in history as befriended
by Pocahontas, went to New England, in 1614, to seek for whale, and
instead he fished for cod. He secured sixty thousand in one month; and
he wrote to his countrymen, "Let not the meanness of the word _fish_
distaste you, for it will afford as good gold as the mines of Guiana or
Potosi, with less hazard and charge, and more certainty and facility."
This promise of wealth has proved true a thousandfold. Smith wrote home
to England full accounts of the fisheries, of the proper equipment of a
fishing-vessel, of the methods of fishing, the profits, all in a most
enticing and familiar style. He said in his _Description of New
England_:--

     "What pleasure can be more than to recreate themselves before their
     owne doores in their owne boates, upon the Sea, where man, woman,
     and childe, with a small hooke and line by angling, may take
     diverse sorts of excellent fish, at their pleasure? And is it not
     pretty sport to pull up twopence, sixpence, or twelvepence, as fast
     as you can hale and veare a line? If a man worke but three days in
     seaven hee may get more than hee can spend unless hee will be
     excessive.

     "Young boyes and girles, salvages, or any other, be they never such
     idlers may turne, carry, and returne fish without shame or either
     great pain: hee is very idle that is past twelve years of age and
     cannot doe so much: and shee is very old that cannot spin a thread
     to catch them."

His accounts and similar ones were so much read in England that when the
Puritans asked King James of England for permission to come to America,
and the king asked what profit would be found by their emigration, he
was at once answered, "Fishing." Whereupon he said in turn, "In truth
'tis an honest trade; 'twas the apostles' own calling." Yet in spite of
their intent to fish, the first English ships came but poorly provided
for fishing, and the settlers had little success at first even in
getting fish for their own food. Elder Brewster of Plymouth, who had
been a courtier in Queen Elizabeth's time, and had seen and eaten many
rich feasts, had nothing to eat at one time but clams. Yet he could give
thanks to God that he was "permitted to suck of the abundance of the
seas and the treasures hid in the sand." The Indian Squanto showed the
Pilgrims many practical methods of fishing, among them one of treading
out eels from the brook with his feet and catching them with his hands.
And every ship brought in either cod-hooks and lines, mackerel-hooks and
lines, herring-nets, seines, shark-hooks, bass-nets, squid-lines,
eel-pots, coils of rope and cable, "drails, barbels, pens, gaffs," or
mussel-hooks.

Josselyn, in his _New England's Rarities_, written in 1672, enumerated
over two hundred kinds of fish that were caught in New England waters.

Lobsters certainly were plentiful enough to prevent starvation. The
minister Higginson, writing of lobsters at Salem, said that many of them
weighed twenty-five pounds apiece, and that "the least boy in the
plantation may catch and eat what he will of them." In 1623, when the
ship _Anne_ arrived from England, bringing many of the wives and
children of the Pilgrims who had come in the first ships, the only
feast of welcome that the poor husbands had to offer the newcomers was
"a lobster or a piece of fish without bread or anything else but a cup
of spring water."

Patriarchal lobsters five and six feet long were caught in New York Bay.
The traveller, Van der Donck, says "those a foot long are better for
serving at table." Truly a lobster six feet long would seem a little
awkward to serve on a dinner table. Eddis, in his _Letters from
America_, written in 1792, says these vast lobsters were caught in New
York waters until Revolutionary days, when "since the incessant
cannonading, they have entirely forsaken the coast; not one having been
taken or seen since the commencement of hostilities." Beside these great
shell-fish the giant lobster confined in our New York Aquarium in 1897
seems but a dwarf. In Virginia waters lobsters were caught, and vast
crabs, often a foot in length and six inches broad, with a long tail and
many legs. One of these crabs furnished a sufficient meal for four men.

From the gossiping pages of the Labadist missionaries who came to
America in 1697 we find hints of good fare in oysters in Brooklyn.

     "Then was thrown upon the fire, to be roasted, a pail full of
     Gowanes oysters which are the best in the country. They are fully
     as good as those of England, better than those we eat at Falmouth.
     I had to try some of them raw. They are large and full, some of
     them not less than a foot long. Others are young and small. In
     consequence of the great quantities of them everybody keeps the
     shells for the burning of lime. They pickle the oysters in small
     casks and send them to Barbados."

Van der Donck corroborates the foot-long oysters seen by the Labadist
travellers. He says the "large oysters roasted or stewed make a good
bite,"--a very good bite, it would seem to us.

Strachey, in his _Historie of Travaile into Virginia_, says he saw
oysters in Virginia that were thirteen inches long. Fortunately for the
starving Virginians, oyster banks rose above the surface at ebb-tide at
the mouth of the Elizabeth River, and in 1609 a large number of these
famished Virginia colonists found in these oyster banks a means of
preservation of life.

As might be expected of any country so intersected with arms of the sea
and fresh-water streams, Virginia at the time of settlement teemed with
fish. The Indians killed them in the brooks by striking them with
sticks, and it is said the colonists scooped them up in frying-pans.
Horses ridden into the rivers stepped on the fish and killed them. In
one cast of a seine the governor, Sir Thomas Dale, caught five thousand
sturgeon as large as cod. Some sturgeon were twelve feet long. The works
of Captain John Smith, Rolfe's _Relation_, and other books of early
travellers, all tell of the enormous amount of fish in Virginia.

The New York rivers were also full of fish, and the bays; their plenty
in New Netherland inspired the first poet of that colony to rhyming
enumeration of the various kinds of fish found there; among them were
sturgeon--beloved of the Indians and despised of Christians; and
terrapin--not despised by any one. "Some persons," wrote the Dutch
traveller, Van der Donck, in 1656, "prepare delicious dishes from the
water terrapin, which is luscious food." The Middle and Southern states
paid equally warm but more tardy tribute to the terrapin's reputation as
luscious food.

While other fish were used everywhere for food, cod was the great staple
of the fishing industry. By the year 1633 Dorchester and Marblehead had
started in the fisheries for trading purposes. Sturgeon also was caught
at a little later date, and bass and alewives.

Morton, in his _New England Canaan_, written in 1636, says, "I myself at
the turning of the tyde have seen such multitudes of sea bass that it
seemed to me that one might goe over their backs dri-shod."

The regulation of fish-weirs soon became an important matter in all
towns where streams let alewives up from the sea. The New England
ministers took a hand in promoting and encouraging the fisheries, as
they did all positive social movements and commercial benefits. Rev.
Hugh Peter in Salem gave the fisheries a specially good turn. Fishermen
were excused from military training, and portions of the common stock of
corn were assigned to them. The General Court of Massachusetts exempted
"vessels and stock" from "country charges" (which were taxes) for seven
years. Seashore towns assigned free lands to each boat to be used for
stays and flakes for drying. As early as 1640 three hundred thousand
dried codfish were sent to market from New England.

Codfish consisted of three sorts, "marchantable, middling, and refuse."
The first grade was sold chiefly to Roman Catholic Europe, to supply the
constant demands of the fast-days of that religion, and also those of
the Church of England; the second was consumed at home or in the
merchant vessels of New England; the third went to the negroes of the
West Indies, and was often called Jamaica fish. The dun-fish or
dumb-fish, as the word was sometimes written, were the best; so called
from the dun-color. Fish was always eaten in New England for a Saturday
dinner; and Mr. Palfrey, the historian, says that until this century no
New England dinner on Saturday, even a formal dinner party, was complete
without dun-fish being served.

Of course the first fishing-vessels had to be built and sent from
England. Some carried fifty men. They arrived on the coast in early
spring, and by midsummer sailed home. The crew had for wages one-third
share of the fish and oil; another third paid for the men's food, the
salt, nets, hooks, lines, etc.; the other third went to the ship's
owners for profit.

This system was not carried out in New England. There, each fisherman
worked on "his own hook"--and it was literally his own hook; for a tally
was kept of the fish caught by each man, and the proceeds of the trip
were divided in proportion to the number of fish each caught. When there
was a big run of fish, the men never stopped to eat or sleep, but when
food was held to them gnawed it off while their hands were employed with
the fish-lines. With every fishing-vessel that left Gloucester and
Marblehead, the chief centres of the fishing industries, went a boy of
ten or twelve to learn to be a skilled fisherman. He was called a
"cut-tail," for he cut a wedge-shaped bit from the tail of every fish he
caught, and when the fish were sorted out the cut-tails showed the boy's
share of the profit.

For centuries, fish was plentiful and cheap in New England. The
traveller Bennet wrote of Boston, in 1740:--

     "Fish is exceedingly cheap. They sell a fine cod, will weigh a
     dozen pounds or more, just taken out of the sea for about twopence
     sterling. They have smelts, too, which they sell as cheap as sprats
     in London. Salmon, too, they have in great plenty, and these they
     sell for about a shilling apiece which will weigh fourteen or
     fifteen pounds."

Two kinds of delicious fish, beloved, perhaps, above all others
to-day,--salmon and shad,--seem to have been lightly regarded in
colonial days. The price of salmon--less than a penny a pound--shows the
low estimation in which it was held in the early years of the eighteenth
century. It is told that farm-laborers in the vicinity of the
Connecticut River when engaged to work stipulated that they should have
salmon for dinner but once a week.

Shad were profoundly despised; it was even held to be somewhat
disreputable to eat them; and the story is told of a family in Hadley,
Massachusetts, who were about to dine on shad, that, hearing a knock at
the door, they would not open it till the platter holding the obnoxious
shad had been hidden. At first they were fed chiefly to hogs. Two shad
for a penny was the ignoble price in 1733, and it was never much higher
until after the Revolution. After shad and salmon acquired a better
reputation as food, the falls of various rivers became great resorts for
American fishermen as they had been for the Indians. Both kinds of fish
were caught in scoop-nets and seines below the falls. Men came from a
distance and loaded horses and carts with the fish to carry home. Every
farmhouse near was filled with visitors. It was estimated that at the
falls at South Hadley there were fifteen hundred horses in one day.

Salted fish was as carefully prepared and amiably regarded for home use
in New England and New York as in England and Holland at the same date.
The ling and herring of the old countries of Europe gave place in
America to cod, shad, and mackerel. The greatest pains was taken in
preparing, drying, and salting the plentiful fish. It is said that in
New York towns, such as New York and Brooklyn, after shad became a
popular fish, great heaps were left when purchased at each door, and
that the necessary cleaning and preparation of the shad was done on the
street. As all housewives purchased shad and salted and packed at about
the same time, those public scavengers, the domestic hogs who roamed
the town streets unchecked (and ever welcomed), must have been specially
useful at shad-time.

Not in the waters, but of it, were the magnificent tribes of marine fowl
that, undiminished by the feeble weapons and few numbers of the Indians,
had peopled for centuries the waters of the New World. The Chesapeake
and its tributaries furnished each autumn vast feeding-grounds of wild
celery and other aquatic plants to millions of those creatures. The
firearms of Captain John Smith and his two companions were poor things
compared with the fowling-pieces of to-day, but with their three shots
they killed a hundred and forty-eight ducks at one firing. The splendid
wild swan wheeled and trumpeted in the clear autumn air; the wild geese
flew there in their beautiful V-shaped flight; duck in all the varieties
known to modern sportsmen--canvas-back, mallard, widgeon, redhead,
oxeye, dottrel--rested on the Chesapeake waters in vast flocks a mile
wide and seven miles long. Governor Berkeley named also brant, shell
drake, teal, and blewings. The sound of their wings was said to be "like
a great storm coming over the water." For centuries these ducks have
been killed by the white man, and still they return each autumn to their
old feeding-places.




CHAPTER VI

INDIAN CORN


A great field of tall Indian corn waving its stately and luxuriant green
blades, its graceful spindles, and glossy silk under the hot August sun,
should be not only a beautiful sight to every American, but a suggestive
one; one to set us thinking of all that Indian corn means to us in our
history. It was a native of American soil at the settlement of this
country, and under full and thoroughly intelligent cultivation by the
Indians, who were also native sons of the New World. Its abundance,
adaptability, and nourishing qualities not only saved the colonists'
lives, but altered many of their methods of living, especially their
manner of cooking and their tastes in food.

One of the first things that every settler in a new land has to learn is
that he must find food in that land; that he cannot trust long to any
supplies of food which he has brought with him, or to any fresh supplies
which he has ordered to be sent after him. He must turn at once to
hunting, fishing, planting, to furnish him with food grown and found in
the very place where he is.

This was quickly learned by the colonists in America, except in
Virginia, where they had sad starving-times before all were convinced
that corn was a better crop for settlers than silk or any of the many
hoped-for productions which might be valuable in one sense but which
could not be eaten. Powhatan, the father of the Indian princess
Pocahontas, was one of the first to "send some of his People that they
may teach the English how to sow the Grain of his Country." Captain John
Smith, ever quick to learn of every one and ever practical, got two
Indians, in the year 1608, to show him how to break up and plant forty
acres of corn, which yielded him a good crop. A succeeding governor of
Virginia, Sir Thomas Dale, equally practical, intelligent, and
determined, assigned small farms to each colonist, and encouraged and
enforced the growing of corn. Soon many thousand bushels were raised.
There was a terrible Indian massacre in 1622, for the careless
colonists, in order to be free to give their time to the raising of that
new and exceedingly alluring and high-priced crop, tobacco, had given
the Indians firearms to go hunting game for them; and the lesson of easy
killing with powder and shot, when once learned, was turned with havoc
upon the white men. The following year comparatively little corn was
planted, as the luxuriant foliage made a perfect ambush for the close
approach of the savages to the settlements. There was, of course,
scarcity and famine as the result; and a bushel of corn-meal became
worth twenty to thirty shillings, which sum had a value equal to twenty
to thirty dollars to-day. The planters were each compelled by the
magistrates the following year to raise an ample amount of corn to
supply all the families; and to save a certain amount for seed as well.
There has been no lack of corn since that time in Virginia.

The French colonists in Louisiana, perhaps because they were accustomed
to more dainty food than the English, fiercely hated corn, as have the
Irish in our own day. A band of French women settlers fairly raised a
"petticoat rebellion" in revolt against its daily use. A despatch of the
governor of Louisiana says of these rebels:--

     "The men in the colony begin through habit to use corn as an
     article of food; but the women, who are mostly Parisians, have for
     this food a dogged aversion, which has not been subdued. They
     inveigh bitterly against His Grace, the Bishop of Quebec, who, they
     say, has enticed them away from home under pretext of sending them
     to enjoy the milk and honey of the land of promise."

This hatred of corn was shared by other races. An old writer says:--

     "Peter Martyr could magnifie the Spaniards, of whom he reports they
     led a miserable life for three days together, with parched grain of
     maize onlie"--

which, when compared with the diet of New England settlers for weeks at
a time, seems such a bagatelle as to be scarce worth the mention of
Peter Martyr. By tradition, still commemorated at Forefathers' Dinners,
the ration of Indian corn supplied to each person in the colony in time
of famine was but five kernels.

The stores brought over by the Pilgrims were poor and inadequate enough;
the beef and pork were tainted, the fish rotten, the butter and cheese
corrupted. European wheat and seeds did not mature well. Soon, as
Bradford says in his now famous _Log-Book_, in his picturesque and
forcible English, "the grim and grizzled face of starvation stared" at
them. The readiest supply to replenish the scanty larder was fish, but
the English made surprisingly bungling work over fishing, and soon the
most unfailing and valuable supply was the native Indian corn, or
"Guinny wheat," or "Turkie wheat," as it was called by the colonists.

Famine and pestilence had left eastern Massachusetts comparatively bare
of inhabitants at the time of the settlement of Plymouth; and the vacant
cornfields of the dead Indian cultivators were taken and planted by the
weak and emaciated Plymouth men, who never could have cleared new
fields. From the teeming sea, in the April run of fish, was found the
needed fertilizer. Says Governor Bradford:--

     "In April of the first year they began to plant their corne, in
     which service Squanto stood them in great stead, showing them both
     ye manner how to set it, and after, how to dress and tend it."

From this planting sprang not only the most useful food, but the first
and most pregnant industry of the colonists.

The first fields and crops were communal, and the result was disastrous.
The third year, at the sight of the paralyzed settlement, Governor
Bradford wisely decided, as did Governor Dale of Virginia, that "they
should set corne every man for his owne particuler, furnishing a portion
for public officers, fishermen, etc., who could not work, and in that
regard trust to themselves." Thus personal energy succeeded to communal
inertia; Bradford wrote that women and children cheerfully worked in the
fields to raise corn which should be their very own.

A field of corn on the coast of Massachusetts or Narragansett or by the
rivers of Virginia, growing long before any white man had ever been seen
on these shores, was precisely like the same field planted three hundred
years later by our American farmers. There was the same planting in
hills, the same number of stalks in the hill, with pumpkin-vines running
among the hills, and beans climbing the stalks. The hills of the Indians
were a trifle nearer together than those of our own day are usually set,
for the native soil was more fertile.

The Indians taught the colonists much more than the planting and raising
of corn; they showed also how to grind the corn and cook it in many
palatable ways. The various foods which we use to-day made from Indian
corn are all cooked just as the Indians cooked them at the time of the
settlement of the country; and they are still called with Indian names,
such as hominy, pone, suppawn, samp, succotash.

The Indian method of preparing maize or corn was to steep or parboil it
in hot water for twelve hours, then to pound the grain in a mortar or a
hollowed stone in the field, till it was a coarse meal. It was then
sifted in a rather closely woven basket, and the large grains which did
not pass through the sieve were again pounded and sifted.

Samp was often pounded in olden times in a primitive and picturesque
Indian mortar made of a hollowed block of wood or a stump of a tree,
which had been cut off about three feet from the ground. The pestle was
a heavy block of wood shaped like the inside of the mortar, and fitted
with a handle attached to one side. This block was fastened to the top
of a young and slender tree, a growing sapling, which was bent over and
thus gave a sort of spring which pulled the pestle up after being
pounded down on the corn. This was called a sweep and mortar mill.

They could be heard at a long distance. Two New Hampshire pioneers made
clearings about a quarter of a mile apart and built houses. There was an
impenetrable gully and thick woods between the cabins; and the blazed
path was a long distance around, so the wives of the settlers seldom saw
each other or any other woman. It was a source of great comfort and
companionship to them both that they could signal to each other every
day by pounding on their mortars. And they had an ingenious system of
communication which one spring morning summoned one to the home of the
other, where she arrived in time to be the first to welcome fine twin
babies.

After these simple stump and sapling mortars were abandoned elsewhere
they were used on Long Island, and it was jestingly told that sailors
in a fog could always know on what shore they were, when they could hear
the pounding of the samp-mortars on Long Island.

Rude hand-mills next were used, which were called quernes, or quarnes.
Some are still in existence and known as samp-mills. Windmills followed,
of which the Indians were much afraid, dreading "their long arms and
great teeth biting the corn in pieces"; and thinking some evil spirit
turned the arms. As soon as maize was plentiful, English mills for
grinding meal were started in many towns. There was a windmill at
Watertown, Massachusetts, in 1631. In 1633 the first water-mill, at
Dorchester, was built, and in Ipswich a grist-mill was built in 1635.
The mill built by Governor John Winthrop in New London is still
standing.

The first windmill erected in America was one built and set up by
Governor Yeardley in Virginia in 1621. By 1649 there were five
water-mills, four windmills, and a great number of horse and hand mills
in Virginia. Millers had one-sixth of the meal they ground for toll.

Suppawn was another favorite of the settlers, and was an Indian dish
made from Indian corn; it was a thick corn-meal and milk porridge. It
was soon seen on every Dutch table, for the Dutch were very fond of all
foods made from all kinds of grain; and it is spoken of by all
travellers in early New York, and in the Southern colonies.

Samp and samp porridge were soon abundant dishes. Samp is Indian corn
pounded to a coarsely ground powder. Roger Williams wrote of it:--

     "Nawsamp is a kind of meal pottage unparched. From this the English
     call their samp, which is the Indian corn beaten and boiled and
     eaten hot or cold with milk and butter, and is a diet exceedingly
     wholesome for English bodies."

The Swedish scientist, Professor Kalm, told that the Indians gave him
"fresh maize-bread, baked in an oblong shape, mixed with dried
huckleberries, which lay as close in it as raisins in a plum pudding."

Roger Williams said that sukquttahhash was "corn seethed like beans."
Our word "succotash" we now apply to corn cooked with beans. Pones were
the red men's appones.

The love of the Indians for "roasting ears" was quickly shared by the
white man. In Virginia a series of plantings of corn were made from the
first of April to the last of June, to afford a three months' succession
of roasting ears.

The traveller, Strachey, writing of the Indians in 1618, said: "They
lap their corn in rowles within the leaves of the come and so boyle yt
for a dayntie." This method of cooking we have also retained to the
present day.

It seemed to me very curious to read in Governor Winthrop's journal,
written in Boston about 1630, that when corn was "parched," as he called
it, it turned inside out and was "white and floury within"; and to think
that then little English children were at that time learning what
pop-corn was, and how it looked when it was parched, or popped.

Hasty pudding had been made in England of wheat-flour or oatmeal and
milk, and the name was given to boiled puddings of corn-meal and water.
It was not a very suitable name, for corn-meal should never be cooked
hastily, but requires long boiling or baking. The hard Indian pudding
slightly sweetened and boiled in a bag was everywhere made. It was told
that many New England families had three hundred and sixty-five such
puddings in a year.

The virtues of "jonny-cake" have been loudly sung in the interesting
pages of _Shepherd Tom_. The way the corn should be carried to the mill,
the manner in which it should be ground, the way in which the stones
should revolve, and the kind of stones, receive minute description, as
does the mixing and the baking, to the latter of which the middle board
of red oak from the head of a flour-barrel is indispensable as a
bakeboard, while the fire to bake with must be of walnut logs. Hasty
pudding, corn dumplings, and corn-meal porridge, so eminently good that
it was ever mentioned with respect in the plural, as "them porridge,"
all are described with the exuberant joyousness of a happy, healthful
old age in remembrance of a happy, high-spirited, and healthful youth.

The harvesting of the corn afforded one of the few scenes of gayety in
the lives of the colonists. A diary of one Ames, of Dedham,
Massachusetts, in the year 1767, thus describes a corn-husking, and most
ungallantly says naught of the red ear and attendant osculation:--

     "Made a husking Entertainm't. Possibly this leafe may last a
     Century and fall into the hands of some inquisitive Person for
     whose Entertainm't I will inform him that now there is a Custom
     amongst us of making an Entertainm't at husking of Indian Corn
     whereto all the neighboring Swains are invited and after the Corn
     is finished they like the Hottentots give three Cheers or huzza's
     but cannot carry in the husks without a Rhum bottle; they feign
     great Exertion but do nothing till Rhum enlivens them, when all is
     done in a trice, then after a hearty Meal about 10 at Night they go
     to their pastimes."

There was one way of eating corn which was spoken of by all the early
writers and travellers which we should not be very well satisfied with
now, but it shows us how useful and necessary corn was at that time, and
how much all depended on it. This preparation of corn was called nocake
or nookick. An old writer named Wood thus defined it:--

     "It is Indian corn parched in the hot ashes, the ashes being sifted
     from it; it is afterwards beaten to powder and put into a long
     leatherne bag trussed at the Indian's backe like a knapsacke, out
     of which they take three spoonsful a day."

It was held to be the most nourishing food known, and in the smallest
and most condensed form. Both Indians and white men usually carried it
in a pouch when they went on long journeys, and mixed it with snow in
the winter and water in summer. Gookin says it was sweet, toothsome, and
hearty. With only this nourishment the Indians could carry loads "fitter
for elephants than men." Roger Williams says a spoonful of this meal and
water made him many a good meal. When we read this we are not surprised
that the Pilgrims could keep alive on what is said was at one time of
famine their food for a day,--five kernels of corn apiece. The apostle
Eliot, in his Indian Bible, always used the word nookick for the English
words flour or meal.

We ought to think of the value of food in those days; and we may be sure
the governor and his council thought corn of value when they took it for
taxes and made it a legal currency just like gold and silver, and
forbade any one to feed it to pigs. If you happen to see the price of
corn during those years down to Revolutionary times, you will, perhaps,
be surprised to see how much the price varied. From ten shillings a
bushel in 1631, to two shillings in 1672, to twenty in 1747, to two in
1751, and one hundred shillings at the opening of the Revolution. In
these prices of corn, as in the price of all other articles at this
time, the difference was in the money, which had a constantly changing
value, not in the article itself or its usefulness. The corn had a
steady value, it always furnished just so much food; and really was a
standard itself rather than measured and valued by the poor and shifting
money.

There are many other interesting facts connected with the early culture
of corn: of the finding hidden in caves or "caches" in the ground the
Indian's corn which he had stored for seed; of the sacred "corn-dances"
of the Indians; that the first patent granted in England to an American
was to a Philadelphia woman for a mill to grind a kind of hominy; of
the great profit to the colonists in corn-raising, for the careless and
greedy Indians always ate up all their corn as soon as possible, then
had to go out and trap beavers in the woods to sell the skins to the
colonists for corn to keep them from starving. One colonist planted
about eight bushels of seed-corn. He raised from this eight hundred and
sixty-four bushels of corn, which he sold to the Indians for beaver
skins which gave him a profit of *327.

Many games were played with the aid of kernels of corn: fox and geese,
checkers, "hull gull, how many," and games in which the corn served as
counters.

The ears of corn were often piled into the attic until the floor was a
foot deep with them. I once entered an ell bedroom in a Massachusetts
farmhouse where the walls, rafters, and four-post bedstead were hung
solid with ears of yellow corn, which truly "made a sunshine in a shady
place."

Some of the preparation of corn fell upon the boys; it was their regular
work all winter in the evening firelight to shell corn from the ears by
scraping them on the iron edge of the wooden shovel or on the fire-peel.
My father told me that even in his childhood in the first quarter of
this century many families of moderate means fastened the long-handled
frying-pan across a tub and drew the corn ears across the sharp edge of
the handle of the pan. I note in Peter Parley's reminiscences of his
childhood a similar use of a frying-pan handle in his home. Other
farmers set the edge of a knife blade in a piece of wood and scraped on
the back of the blade. In some households the corn was pounded into
hominy in wooden mortars. An old corn-sheller used in western
Massachusetts is here shown.

When the corn was shelled, the cobs were not carelessly discarded or
disregarded. They were stored often in a lean-to or loft in the kitchen
ell; from thence they were brought down in skepes or boxes about a
bushel at a time; and after being used by the children as playthings to
build "cob-houses," were employed as light wood for the fire. They had a
special use in many households for smoking hams; and their smoke was
deemed to impart a specially delightful flavor to hams and bacon.

One special use of corn should be noted. By order of the government of
Massachusetts Bay in 1623, it was used as ballots in public voting. At
annual elections of the governors' assistants in each town, a kernel of
corn was deposited to signify a favorable vote upon the nominee, while a
bean signified a negative vote; "and if any free-man shall put in more
than one Indian corn or bean he shall forfeit for every such offence Ten
Pounds."

The choice of a national flower or plant is much talked about to-day.
Aside from the beauty of maize when growing and its wonderful
adaptability in every part for decoration, would not the noble and
useful part played by Indian corn in our early history entitle it to be
our first choice?




CHAPTER VII

MEAT AND DRINK


The food brought in ships from Europe to the colonists was naturally
limited by the imperfect methods of transportation which then existed.
Nothing like refrigerators were known; no tinned foods were even thought
of; ways of packing were very crude and careless; so the kinds of
provisions which would stand the long voyage on a slow sailing-vessel
were very few. The settlers turned at once, as all settlers in a new
land should, to the food-supplies found in the new home; of these the
three most important ones were corn, fish, and game. I have told of
their plenty, their value, and their use. There were many other
bountiful and good foods, among them pumpkins or pompions, as they were
at first called.

The pumpkin has sturdily kept its own place on the New England farm,
varying in popularity and use, but always of value as easy of growth,
easy of cooking, and easy to keep in a dried form. Yet the colonists did
not welcome the pumpkin with eagerness, even in times of great want.
They were justly rebuked for their indifference and dislike by Johnson
in his _Wonder-working Providence_, who called the pumpkin "a fruit
which the Lord fed his people with till corn and cattle increased"; and
another pumpkin-lover referred to "the times wherein old Pompion was a
saint." One colonial poet gives the golden vegetable this tribute:--

    "We have pumpkins at morning and pumpkins at noon,
    If it were not for pumpkins we should be undone."

I am very sure were I living on dried corn and scant shell-fish, as the
Pilgrims were forced to do, I should have turned with delight to
"pompion-sause" as a change of diet. Stewed pumpkins and pumpkin bread
were coarse ways of using the fruit for food. Pumpkin bread--made of
half Indian meal--was not very pleasing in appearance. A traveller in
1704 called it an "awkward food." It is eaten in Connecticut to this
day. The Indians dried pumpkins and strung them for winter use, and the
colonists followed the Indian custom.

In Virginia pumpkins were equally plentiful and useful. Ralph Hamor, in
his _True Discourse_, says they grew in such abundance that a hundred
were often observed to spring from one seed. The Virginia Indians boiled
beans, peas, corn, and pumpkins together, and the colonists liked the
dish. In the trying times at "James-Citty," the plentiful pumpkins
played a great part in providing food-supplies for the starving
Virginians.

Squashes were also native vegetables. The name is Indian. To show the
wonderful and varied way in which the English spelt Indian names let me
tell you that Roger Williams called them askutasquashes; the Puritan
minister Higginson, squantersquashes; the traveller Josselyn,
squontorsquashes, and the historian Wood, isquoukersquashes.

Potatoes were known to New Englanders, but were rare and when referred
to were probably sweet potatoes. It was a long time before they were
much liked. A farmer at Hadley, Massachusetts, had what he thought a
very large crop in 1763--it was eight bushels. It was believed by many
persons that if a man ate them every day, he could not live seven years.
In the spring all that were left on hand were carefully burned, for many
believed that if cattle or horses ate these potatoes they would die.
They were first called, when carried to England, Virginia potatoes; then
they became much liked and grown in Ireland; then the Irish settlers in
New Hampshire brought them back to this continent, and now they are
called, very senselessly, Irish potatoes. Many persons fancied the balls
were what should be eaten, and said they "did not much desire them." A
fashionable way of cooking them was with butter, sugar, and grape-juice;
this was mixed with dates, lemons, and mace; seasoned with cinnamon,
nutmeg, and pepper; then covered with a frosting of sugar--and you had
to hunt well to find the potato among all these other things.

In the Carolinas the change in English diet was effected by the sweet
potato. This root was cooked in various ways: it was roasted in the
ashes, boiled, made into puddings, used as a substitute for bread, made
into pancakes which a foreigner said tasted as though composed of sweet
almonds; and in every way it was liked and was so plentiful that even
the slaves fed upon it.

Beans were abundant, and were baked by the Indians in earthen pots just
as we bake them to-day. The settlers planted peas, parsnips, turnips,
and carrots, which grew and thrived. Huckleberries, blackberries,
strawberries, and grapes grew wild. Apple-trees were planted at once,
and grew well in New England and the Middle states. Twenty years after
the Roman Catholic settlement of Maryland the fruitful orchards were
conspicuously flourishing.

Johnson, writing in 1634, said that all then in New England could have
apple, pear, and quince tarts instead of pumpkin-pies. They made
apple-slump, apple-mose, apple-crowdy, apple-tarts, mess apple-pies, and
puff apple-pies. The Swedish parson, Dr. Acrelius, writing home in 1758
an account of the settlement of Delaware, said:--

     "Apple-pie is used through the whole year, and when fresh apples
     are no longer to be had, dried ones are used. It is the evening
     meal of children. House-pie, in country places, is made of apples
     neither peeled nor freed from their cores, and its crust is not
     broken if a wagon wheel goes over it."

The making of a portion of the autumn's crop of apples into dried
apples, apple-sauce, and apple-butter for winter was preceded in many
country homes by an apple-paring. The cheerful kitchen of a farmhouse
was set with an array of empty pans, tubs, and baskets; of sharp knives
and heaped-up barrels of apples. A circle of laughing faces completed
the scene, and the barrels of apples were quickly emptied by the many
skilful hands. The apples intended for drying were strung on linen
thread and hung on the kitchen and attic rafters. The following day the
stout crane in the open fireplace was hung with brass kettles which were
filled with the pared apples, sweet and sour in proper proportions, the
sour at the bottom since they required more time to cook. If quinces
could be had, they were added to give flavor, and molasses, or
boiled-down pungent "apple-molasses," was added for sweetening. As there
was danger that the sauce would burn over the roaring logs, many
housewives placed clean straw at the bottom of the kettle to keep the
apples from the fiercest heat. Days were spent in preparing the winter's
stock of apple-sauce, but when done and placed in barrels in the cellar,
it was always ready for use, and when slightly frozen was a keen relish.
Apple-butter was made of the pared apples boiled down with cider.

Wheat did not at first ripen well, so white bread was for a time rarely
eaten. Rye grew better, so bread made of "rye-an'-injun," which was half
rye-meal, half corn-meal, was used instead. Bake-shops were so many in
number in all the towns that it is evident that housewives in towns and
villages did not make bread in every home as to-day, but bought it at
the baker's.

At the time when America was settled, no European peoples drank water as
we do to-day, for a constant beverage. The English drank ale, the Dutch
beer, the French and Spanish light wines, for every-day use. Hence it
seemed to the colonists a great trial and even a very dangerous
experiment to drink water in the New World. They were forced to do it,
however, in many cases; and to their surprise found that it agreed with
them very well, and that their health improved. Governor Winthrop of
Massachusetts, who was a most sensible and thoughtful man, soon had
water used as a constant drink by all in his household.

As cows increased in number and were cared for, milk of course was added
to the every-day fare. Rev. Mr. Higginson wrote in 1630 that milk cost
in Salem but a penny a quart; while another minister, John Cotton, said
that milk and ministers were the only things cheap in New England. At
that time milk cost but a penny and a quarter a quart in old England.

Milk became a very important part of the food of families in the
eighteenth century. In 1728 a discussion took place in the Boston
newspapers as to the expense of keeping a family "of middling figure."
These writers all named only bread and milk for breakfast and supper.
Ten years later a minister, calculating the expenses of his family, set
down bread and milk for both breakfast and supper. Milk and hasty
pudding, milk and stewed pumpkin, milk and baked apples, milk and
berries, were variations. In winter, when milk was scarce, sweetened
cider diluted with water was used instead. Sometimes bread was soaked
with this mixture. It is said that children were usually very fond of
it.

As comparatively few New England families in the seventeenth century
owned churns, I cannot think that many made butter; of course families
of wealth ate it, but it was not common as to-day. In the inventories of
the property of the early settlers of Maine there is but one churn
named. Butter was worth from threepence to sixpence a pound. As cattle
increased the duties of the dairy grew, and soon were never-ceasing and
ever-tiring. The care of cream and making of butter was in the
eighteenth century the duty of every good wife and dame in the country,
and usually in the town.

Though the shape and ease of action of churns varied, still
butter-making itself varied little from the same work to-day. Several
old-time churns are shown, the revolving one being the most unusual.

Cheese was plentiful and good in all the Northern colonies. It was also
an unending care from the time the milk was set over the fire to warm
and then to curdle; through the breaking of the curds in the
cheese-basket; through shaping into cheeses and pressing in the
cheese-press, placing them on the cheese-ladders, and constantly turning
and rubbing them. An old cheese-press, cheese-ladder, and cheese-basket
from Deerfield Memorial Hall are shown in the illustration.

In all households, even in those of great wealth and many servants,
assistance was given in all housewifery by the daughters of the
household. In the South it was chiefly by superintendence and teaching
through actual exposition the negro slaves; in the North it was by the
careful performance of the work.

The manuscript cooking receipt-book of many an ancient dame shows the
great care they took in family cooking. English methods of cooking at
the time of the settlement of this country were very complicated and
very laborious.

It was a day of hashes, ragouts, soups, hotch-pots, etc. There were no
great joints served until the time of Charles the First. In almost every
sixteenth-century receipt for cooking meat, appear some such directions
as these: "Y-mynce it, smyte them on gobbets, hew them on gobbets, chop
on gobbets, hew small, dyce them, skern them to dyce, kerf it to dyce,
grind all to dust, smyte on peces, parcel-hem; hew small on morselyen,
hack them small, cut them on culpons." Great amounts of spices were
used, even perfumes; and as there was no preservation of meat by ice,
perhaps the spices and perfumes were necessary.

Of course the colonists were forced to adopt simpler ways of cooking,
but as towns and commerce increased there were many kitchen duties which
made much tedious work. Many pickles, spiced fruits, preserves, candied
fruits and flowers, and marmalades were made.

Preserving was a very different art from canning fruit to-day. There
were no hermetically sealed jars, no chemical methods, no quick work
about it. Vast jars were filled with preserves so rich that there was no
need of keeping the air from them; they could be opened, that is, the
paper cover taken off, and used as desired; there was no fear of
fermentation, souring, or moulding.

The housewives pickled samphire, fennel, purple cabbage,
nasturtium-buds, green walnuts, lemons, radish-pods, barberries,
elder-buds, parsley, mushrooms, asparagus, and many kinds of fish and
fruit. They candied fruits and nuts, made many marmalades and
quiddonies, and a vast number of fruit wines and cordials. Even their
cakes, pies, and puddings were most complicated, and humble households
were lavish in the various kinds they manufactured and ate.

They collared and potted many kinds of fish and game, and they salted
and soused. Salted meat was eaten, and very little fresh meat; for there
were no means of keeping meat after it was killed. Every well-to-do
family had a "powdering-tub," in which meat was "powdered," that is,
salted and pickled. Many families had a smoke-house, in which beef, ham,
and bacon were smoked.

Perhaps the busiest month of the year was November,--called "killing
time." When the chosen day arrived, oxen, cows, and swine which had been
fattened for the winter's stock were slaughtered early in the morning,
that the meat might be hard and cold before being put in the pickle.
Sausages, rolliches, and head-cheese were made, lard tried out, and
tallow saved.

A curious and quaint domestic implement or utensil found hanging on the
walls of some kitchens was what was known as a sausage-gun. One here is
shown with the piston detached, and also ready for use. The sausage-meat
was forced out through the nozzle into the sausage-cases. A simpler form
of sausage-stuffer has also been seen, much like a tube-and-piston
garden-syringe; though I must add a suspicion which has always lingered
in my mind that the latter utensil was really a syringe-gun, such as
once was used to disable humming-birds by squirting water upon them.

Sausage-meat was thus prepared in New York farmhouses. The meat was cut
coarsely into half-inch pieces and thrown into wooden boxes about three
feet long and ten inches deep. Then its first chopping was by men using
spades which had been ground to a sharp edge.

There were many families that found all their supply of sweetening in
maple sugar and honey; but housewives of dignity and elegance desired to
have some supply of sugar, certainly to offer visitors for their dish of
tea. This sugar was always loaf-sugar, and truly loaf-sugar; for it was
purchased ever in great loaves or cones which averaged in weight about
nine to ten pounds apiece. One cone would last thrifty folk for a year.
This pure clear sugar-cone always came wrapped in a deep blue-purple
paper, of such unusual and beautiful tint and so color-laden that in
country homes it was carefully saved and soaked, to supply a dye for a
small amount of the finest wool, which was used when spun and dyed for
some specially choice purpose. The cutting of this cone of sugar into
lumps of equal size and regular shape was distinctly the work of the
mistress and daughters of the house. It was too exact and too dainty a
piece of work to be intrusted to clumsy or wasteful servants. Various
simply shaped sugar-shears or sugar-cutters were used. An ordinary form
is shown in the illustration. I well recall the only family in which I
ever saw this solemn function of sugar-cutting take place--it was about
thirty years ago. An old Boston East India merchant, one of the last to
cling to a residence in what is known now as the "Burnt District,"
always desired (and his desire was law) to use these loaves of sugar in
his household. I don't know where he got them so long after every one
else had apparently ceased buying them--he may have specially imported
them; at any rate he had them, and to the end of her life it was the
morning duty of his wife "to cut the sugar." I can see my old cousin
still in what she termed her breakfast room, dressed very handsomely,
standing before a bare mahogany table on which a maid placed the
considerable array of a silver salver without legs, which was set on a
folded cloth and held the sugar-loaf and the sugar-cutter; and another
salver with legs that bore various bowls and one beautiful silver
sugar-box which was kept filled high for her husband's toddy. It seemed
an interminably tedious work to me and a senseless one, as I chafingly
waited for the delightful morning drive in delightful Boston. It was in
this household that I encountered the sweetest thing of my whole life; I
have written elsewhere its praises in full; a barrel, a small one, to be
sure, but still a whole teak-wood barrel full of long strings of
glistening rock-candy. I had my fill of it at will, though it was not
kept as a sweetmeat, but was a kitchen store having a special use in
the manufacture of rich brandy sauces for plum puddings, and of a kind
of marchepane ornamentation for desserts.

All the spices used in the household were also ground at home, in
spice-mortars and spice-mills. These were of various sizes, including
the pepper-mills, which were set on the table at meal-times, and the
tiny ornamental graters which were carried in the pocket.

The entire food of a household was the possible production of a farm. In
a paper published in the American Museum in 1787 an old farmer says:--

     "At this time my farm gave me and my whole family a good living on
     the produce of it, and left me one year with another one hundred
     and fifty silver dollars, for I never spent more than ten dollars a
     year which was for salt, nails, and the like. Nothing to eat, drink
     or wear was bought, as my farm provided all."

The farm food was not varied, it is true, as to-day; for articles of
luxury came by importation. The products of tropical countries, such as
sugar, molasses, tea, coffee, spices, found poor substitutes in home
food-products. Dried pumpkin was a poor sweetening instead of molasses;
maple sugar and honey were not esteemed as was sugar; tea was
ill-replaced by raspberry leaves, loosestrife, hardhack, goldenrod,
dittany, blackberry leaves, yeopon, sage, and a score of other herbs;
coffee was better than parched rye and chestnuts; spices could not be
compensated for or remotely imitated by any substitutes.

So though there was ample quantity of food, the quality, save in the
town, was not such as English housewives had been accustomed to; there
were many deprivations in their kitchens which tried them sorely. The
better cooks they were, the more trying were the limitations. Every
woman with a love for her fellow-woman must feel a thrill of keen
sympathy for the goodwife of Newport, New Hampshire, who had to make her
Thanksgiving mince-pies with a filling of bear's meat and dried
pumpkins, sweetened with maple sugar, and her crust of corn-meal. Her
husband loyally recorded that they were the best mince-pies he ever ate.

As years passed on and great wealth came to individuals, the tables of
the opulent, especially in the Middle colonies, rivalled the luxury of
English and French houses of wealth. It is surprising to read in Dr.
Cutler's diary that when he dined with Colonel Duer in New York in 1787,
there were fifteen kinds of wine served besides cider, beer, and porter.

John Adams probably lived as well as any New Englander of similar
position and means. A Sunday dinner at his house was thus described by
a visitor: the first course was a pudding of Indian meal, molasses, and
butter; then came a course of veal and bacon, neck of mutton, and
vegetables. When the New Englander went to Philadelphia, his eyes opened
wide at the luxury and extravagance of fare. He has given in his diary
some accounts of the lavishness of the Philadelphia larder. Such entries
as these are found:--

     (Of the home of Miers Fisher, a young Quaker lawyer.) "This plain
     Friend, with his plain but pretty wife with her Thees and Thous,
     had provided us a costly entertainment; ducks, hams, chickens,
     beef, pig, tarts, creams, custards, jellies, fools, trifles,
     floating islands, beer, porter, punch, wine and a long, etc."

     (At the home of Chief Justice Chew.) "About four o'clock we were
     called to dinner. Turtle and every other thing, flummery, jellies,
     sweetmeats of twenty sorts, trifles, whipped sillabubs, floating
     islands, fools, etc., with a dessert of fruits, raisins, almonds,
     pears, peaches."

     "A most sinful feast again! everything which could delight the eye
     or allure the taste; curds and creams, jellies, sweetmeats of
     various sorts, twenty kinds of tarts, fools, trifles, floating
     islands, whipped sillabubs, etc. Parmesan cheese, punch, wine,
     porter, beer."

By which lists may plainly be seen that our second President had
somewhat of a sweet tooth.

The Dutch were great beer-drinkers and quickly established breweries at
Albany and New York. But before the century had ended New Englanders had
abandoned the constant drinking of ale and beer for cider. Cider was
very cheap; but a few shillings a barrel. It was supplied in large
amounts to students at college, and even very little children drank it.
President John Adams was an early and earnest wisher for temperance
reform; but to the end of his life he drank a large tankard of hard
cider every morning when he first got up. It was free in every farmhouse
to all travellers and tramps.

A cider-mill was usually built on a hillside so the building could be
one story high in front and two in the back. Thus carts could easily
unload the apples on the upper level and take away the barrels of cider
on the lower. Standing below on the lower floor you could see two
upright wooden cylinders, set a little way apart, with knobs, or nuts as
they were called, on one cylinder which fitted loosely into holes on the
other. The cylinders worked in opposite directions and drew in and
crushed the apples poured down between them. The nuts and holes
frequently clogged with the pomace. Then the mill was stopped and a boy
scraped out with a stick or hook the crushed apples. A horse walking in
a small circle moved a lever which turned the motor wheel. It was slow
work; it took three hours to grind a cart-load of apples; but the
machinery was efficient and simple. The pomace fell into a large shallow
vat or tank, and if it could lie in the vat overnight it was a benefit.
Then the pomace was put in a press. This was simple in construction. At
the bottom was a platform grooved in channels; a sheaf of clean straw
was spread on the platform, and with wooden shovels the pomace was
spread thick over it. Then a layer of straw was laid at right angles
with the first, and more pomace, and so on till the form was about three
feet high; the top board was put on as a cover; the screw turned and
blocks pressed down, usually with a long wooden hand-lever, very slowly
at first, then harder, until the mass was solid and every drop of juice
had trickled into the channels of the platform and thence to the pan
below. Within the last two or three years I have seen those cider-mills
at work in the country back of old Plymouth and in Narragansett, sending
afar their sourly fruity odors. And though apple orchards are running
out, and few new trees are planted, and the apple crop in those
districts is growing smaller and smaller, yet is the sweet cider of
country cider-mills as free and plentiful a gift to any passer-by as the
water from the well or the air we breathe. Perry was made from pears,
as cider is from apples, and peachy from peaches. Metheglin and mead,
drinks of the old Druids in England, were made from honey, yeast, and
water, and were popular everywhere. In Virginia whole plantations of the
honey-locust furnished locust beans for making metheglin. From
persimmons, elderberries, juniper berries, pumpkins, corn-stalks,
hickory nuts, sassafras bark, birch bark, and many other leaves, roots,
and barks, various light drinks were made. An old song boasted:--

    "Oh, we can make liquor to sweeten our lips
    Of pumpkins, of parsnips, of walnut-tree chips."

Many other stronger and more intoxicating liquors were made in large
quantities, among them enormous amounts of rum, which was called often
"kill-devil." The making of rum aided and almost supported the
slave-trade in this country. The poor negroes were bought on the coast
of Africa by New England sea-captains and merchants and paid for with
barrels of New England rum. These slaves were then carried on
slave-ships to the West Indies, and sold at a large profit to planters
and slave-dealers for a cargo of molasses. This was brought to New
England, distilled into rum, and sent off to Africa. Thus the circle of
molasses, rum, and slaves was completed. Many slaves were also landed
in New England, but there was no crop there that needed negroes to raise
it. So slavery never was as common in New England as in the South, where
the tropical tobacco and rice fields needed negro labor. But New
England's share in promoting negro slavery in America was just as great
as was Virginia's.

Besides all the rum that was sent to Africa, much was drunk by Americans
at home. At weddings, funerals, christenings, at all public meetings and
private feasts, New England rum was ever present. In nothing is more
contrast shown between our present day and colonial times than in the
habits of liquor-drinking. We cannot be grateful enough for the
temperance reform, which began at the early part of this century, and
was so sadly needed.

For many years the colonists had no tea, chocolate, or coffee to drink;
for those were not in use in England when America was settled. In 1690
two dealers were licensed to sell tea "in publique" in Boston. Green and
bohea teas were sold at the Boston apothecaries' in 1712. For many years
tea was also sold like medicine in England at the apothecaries' and not
at the grocers'.

Many queer mistakes were made through ignorance of its proper use. Many
colonists put the tea into water, boiled it for a time, threw the
liquid away, and ate the tea-leaves. In Salem they did not find the
leaves very attractive, so they put butter and salt on them.

In 1670 a Boston woman was licensed to sell coffee and chocolate, and
soon coffee-houses were established there. Some did not know how to cook
coffee any more than tea, but boiled the whole coffee-beans in water,
ate them, and drank the liquid; and naturally this was not very good
either to eat or drink.

At the time of the Stamp Act, when patriotic Americans threw the tea
into Boston harbor, Americans were just as great tea-drinkers as the
English. Now it is not so. The English drink much more tea than we do;
and the habit of coffee-drinking, first acquired in the Revolution, has
descended from generation to generation, and we now drink more coffee
than tea. This is one of the differences in our daily life caused by the
Revolution.

Many home-grown substitutes were used in Revolutionary times for tea:
ribwort was a favorite one; strawberry and currant leaves, sage,
thorough-wort, and "Liberty Tea," made from the four-leaved loosestrife.
"Hyperion tea" was raspberry leaves, and was said by good patriots to be
"very delicate and most excellent."




CHAPTER VIII

FLAX CULTURE AND SPINNING


In recounting the various influences which assisted the Americans to
success in the War for Independence, such as the courage and integrity
of the American generals, the generosity of the American people, the
skill of Americans in marksmanship, their powers of endurance, their
acclimatization, their confidence and faith, etc., we must never forget
to add their independence in their own homes of any outside help to give
them every necessity of life. No farmer or his wife need fear any king
when on every home farm was found food, drink, medicine, fuel, lighting,
clothing, shelter. Home-made was an adjective that might be applied to
nearly every article in the house. Such would not be the case under
similar stress to-day. In the matter of clothing alone we could not now
be independent. Few farmers raise flax to make linen; few women can spin
either wool or flax, or weave cloth; many cannot knit. In early days
every farmer and his sons raised wool and flax; his wife and daughters
spun them into thread and yarn, knit these into stockings and mittens,
or wove them into linen and cloth, and then made them into clothing.
Even in large cities nearly all women spun yarn and thread, all could
knit, and many had hand-looms to weave cloth at home. These home
occupations in the production of clothing have been very happily termed
the "homespun industries."

Nearly every one has seen one of the pretty foot-wheels for spinning
flax thread for linen, which may yet be found in the attics of many of
our farmhouses, as well as in some of our parlors, where, with a bunch
of flax wound around and tied to the spindle, they have within a few
years been placed as a relic of the olden times.

If one of these flax-wheels could speak to-day, it would sing a tale of
the patient industry, of the tiring work of our grandmothers, even when
they were little children, which ought never to be forgotten.

As soon as the colonists had cleared their farms from stones and stumps,
they planted a field, or "patch" of flax, and usually one of hemp. The
seed was sown broadcast like grass-seed in May. Flax is a graceful plant
with pretty drooping blue flowers; hemp has but a sad-colored blossom.

Thomas Tusser says in his _Book of Housewifery_:--

    "Good flax and good hemp to have of her own,
    In May a good huswife will see it be sown.
    And afterwards trim it to serve in a need;
    The fimble to spin, the card for her seed."

When the flax plants were three or four inches high, they were weeded by
young women or children who had to work barefoot, as the stalks were
very tender. If the land had a growth of thistles, the weeders could
wear three or four pairs of woollen stockings. The children had to step
facing the wind, so if any plants were trodden down the wind would help
to blow them back into place. When the flax was ripe, in the last of
June or in July, it was pulled up by the roots and laid out carefully to
dry for a day or two, and turned several times in the sun; this work was
called pulling and spreading, and was usually done by men and boys. It
then was "rippled." A coarse wooden or heavy iron wire comb with great
teeth, named a ripple-comb, was fastened on a plank; the stalks of flax
were drawn through it with a quick stroke to break off the seed-bolles
or "bobs," which fell on a sheet spread to catch them; these were saved
for seed for the next crop, or for sale.

Rippling was done in the field. The stalks were then tied in bundles
called beats or bates and stacked. They were tied only at the seed end,
and the base of the stalks was spread out forming a tent-shaped stack,
called a stook. When dry, the stalks were watered to rot the leaves and
softer fibres. Hemp was watered without rippling. This was done
preferably in running water, as the rotting flax poisoned fish. Stakes
were set in the water in the form of a square, called a steep-pool, and
the bates of flax or hemp were piled in solidly, each alternate layer at
right angles with the one beneath it. A cover of boards and heavy stones
was piled on top. In four or five days the bates were taken up and the
rotted leaves removed. A slower process was termed dew-retting; an old
author calls it "a vile and naughty way," but it was the way chiefly
employed in America.

When the flax was cleaned, it was once more dried and tied in bundles.
Then came work for strong men, to break it on the ponderous flax-brake,
to separate the fibres and get out from the centre the hard woody "hexe"
or "bun." Hemp was also broken.

A flax-brake is an implement which is almost impossible to describe. It
was a heavy log of wood about five feet long, either large enough so the
flat top was about three feet from the ground, or set on heavy logs to
bring it to that height. A portion of the top was cut down leaving a
block at each end, and several long slats were set in lengthwise and
held firm at each end with edges up, by being set into the end blocks.
Then a similar set of slats, put in a heavy frame, was made with the
slats set far enough apart to go into the spaces of the lower slats. The
flax was laid on the lower slats, the frame and upper slats placed on
it, and then pounded down with a heavy wooden mallet weighing many
pounds. Sometimes the upper frame of slats, or knives as they were
called, were hinged to the big under log at one end, and heavily
weighted at the other, and thus the blow was given by the fall of the
weight, not by the force of the farmer's muscle. The tenacity of the
flax can be seen when it would stand this violent beating; and the cruel
blow can be imagined, which the farmer's fingers sometimes got when he
carelessly thrust his hand with the flax too far under the descending
jaw--a shark's maw was equally gentle.

Flax was usually broken twice, once with an "open-tooth brake," once
with a "close or strait brake," that is, one where the long, sharp-edge
strips of wood were set closely together. Then it was scutched or
swingled with a swingling block and knife, to take out any small
particles of bark that might adhere. A man could swingle forty pounds
of flax a day, but it was hard work. All this had to be done in clear
sunny weather when the flax was as dry as tinder.

The clean fibres were then made into bundles called strikes. The strikes
were swingled again, and from the refuse called swingle-tree hurds,
coarse bagging could be spun and woven. After being thoroughly cleaned
the rolls or strikes were sometimes beetled, that is, pounded in a
wooden trough with a great pestle-shaped beetle over and over again
until soft.

Then came the hackling or hetcheling, and the fineness of the flax
depended upon the number of hacklings, the fineness of the various
hackles or hetchels or combs, and the dexterity of the operator. In the
hands of a poor hackler the best of flax would be converted into tow.
The flax was slightly wetted, taken hold of at one end of the bunch, and
drawn through the hackle-teeth towards the hetcheller, and thus fibres
were pulled and laid into continuous threads, while the short fibres
were combed out. It was dusty, dirty work. The threefold process had to
be all done at once; the fibres had to be divided to their fine
filaments, the long threads laid in untangled line, and the tow
separated and removed. After the first hackle, called a ruffler, six
other finer hackles were often used. It was one of the surprises of
flax preparation to see how little good fibre would be left after all
this hackling, even from a large mass of raw material, but it was
equally surprising to see how much linen thread could be made from this
small amount of fine flax. The fibres were sorted according to fineness;
this was called spreading and drawing. So then after over twenty
dexterous manipulations the flax was ready for the wheel, for
spinning,--the most dexterous process of all,--and was wrapped round the
spindle.

Seated at the small flax-wheel, the spinner placed her foot on the
treadle, and spun the fibre into a long, even thread. Hung on the wheel
was a small bone, wood, or earthenware cup, or a gourd-shell, filled
with water, in which the spinner moistened her fingers as she held the
twisting flax, which by the movement of the wheel was wound on bobbins.
When all were filled, the thread was wound off in knots and skeins on a
reel. A machine called a clock-reel counted the exact number of strands
in a knot, usually forty, and ticked when the requisite number had been
wound. Then the spinner would stop and tie the knot. A quaint old ballad
has the refrain:--

    "And he kissed Mistress Polly when the clock-reel ticked."

That is, the lover seized the rare and propitious moments of Mistress
Polly's comparative leisure to kiss her.

Usually the knots or lays were of forty threads, and twenty lays made a
skein or slipping. The number varied, however, with locality. To spin
two skeins of linen thread was a good day's work; for it a spinner was
paid eight cents a day and "her keep."

These skeins of thread had to be bleached. They were laid in warm water
for four days, the water being frequently changed, and the skeins
constantly wrung out. Then they were washed in the brook till the water
came from them clear and pure. Then they were "bucked," that is,
bleached with ashes and hot water, in a bucking-tub, over and over
again, then laid in clear water for a week, and afterwards came a grand
seething, rinsing, beating, washing, drying, and winding on bobbins for
the loom. Sometimes the bleaching was done with slaked lime or with
buttermilk.

These were not the only bleaching operations the flax went through;
others will be detailed in the chapter on hand-weaving.

One lucrative product of flax should be mentioned--flaxseed. Flax was
pulled for spinning when the base of the stalk began to turn yellow,
which was usually the first of July. An old saying was, "June brings the
flax." For seed it stood till it was all yellow. The flaxseed was used
for making oil. Usually the upper chambers of country stores were filled
a foot deep with flaxseed in the autumn, waiting for good sleighing to
convey the seed to town.

In New Hampshire in early days, a wheelwright was not a man who made
wagon-wheels (as such he would have had scant occupation), but one who
made spinning-wheels. Often he carried them around the country on
horseback selling them, thus adding another to the many interesting
itineracies of colonial days. Spinning-wheels would seem clumsy for
horse-carriage, but they were not set up, and several could be compactly
carried when taken apart; far more ticklish articles went on
pack-horses,--large barrels, glazed window-sashes, etc. Nor would it
seem very difficult for a man to carry spinning-wheels on horseback,
when frequently a woman would jump on horseback in the early morning,
and with a baby on one arm and a flax-wheel tied behind, would ride
several miles to a neighbor's to spend the day spinning in cheerful
companionship. A century ago one of these wheelwrights sold a fine
spinning-wheel for a dollar, a clock-reel for two dollars, and a
wool-wheel for two dollars.

Few persons are now living who have ever seen carried on in a country
home in America any of these old-time processes which have been
recounted. As an old antiquary wrote:--

     "Few have ever seen a woman hatchel flax or card tow, or heard the
     buzzing of the foot-wheel, or seen bunches of flaxen yarn hanging
     in the kitchen, or linen cloth whitening on the grass. The
     flax-dresser with the shives, fibres, and dirt of flax covering his
     garments, and his face begrimed with flax-dirt has disappeared; the
     noise of his brake and swingling knife has ended, and the boys no
     longer make bonfires of his swingling tow. The sound of the
     spinning-wheel, the song of the spinster, and the snapping of the
     clock-reel all have ceased; the warping bars and quill wheel are
     gone, and the thwack of the loom is heard only in the factory. The
     spinning woman of King Lemuel cannot be found."

Frequent references are made to flax in the Bible, notably in the Book
of Proverbs; and the methods of growing and preparing flax by the
ancient Egyptians were precisely the same as those of the American
colonist a hundred years ago, of the Finn, Lapp, Norwegian, and Belgian
flax-growers to-day. This ancient skill was not confined to
flax-working. Rosselini, the eminent hierologist, says that every modern
craftsman may see on Egyptian monuments four thousand years old,
representations of the process of his craft just as it is carried on
to-day. The paintings in the Grotto of El Kab, shown in Hamilton's
_*gyptica_, show the pulling, stocking, tying, and rippling of flax
going on just as it is done in Egypt now. The four-tooth ripple of the
Egyptian is improved upon, but it is the same implement. Pliny gives an
account of the mode of preparing flax: plucking it up by the roots,
tying it in bundles, drying, watering, beating, and hackling it, or, as
he says, "combing it with iron hooks." Until the Christian era linen was
almost the only kind of clothing used in Egypt, and the teeming banks of
the Nile furnished flax in abundance. The quality of the linen can be
seen in the bands preserved on mummies. It was not, however, spun on a
wheel, but on a hand-distaff, called sometimes a rock, on which the
women in India still spin the very fine thread which is employed in
making India muslins. The distaff was used in our colonies; it was
ordered that children and others tending sheep or cattle in the fields
should also "be set to some other employment withal, such as spinning
upon the rock, knitting, weaving tape, etc." I heard recently a
distinguished historian refer in a lecture to this colonial statute, and
he spoke of the children _sitting upon a rock_ while knitting or
spinning, etc., evidently knowing naught of the proper signification of
the word.

The homespun industries have ever been held to have a beneficent and
peace-bringing influence on women. Wordsworth voiced this sentiment when
he wrote his series of sonnets beginning:--

    "Grief! thou hast lost an ever-ready friend
    Now that the cottage spinning-wheel is mute."

Chaucer more cynically says, through the _Wife of Bath_:--

    "Deceite, weepynge, spynnynge God hath give
    To wymmen kyndely that they may live."

Spinning doubtless was an ever-ready refuge in the monotonous life of
the early colonist. She soon had plenty of material to work with.
Everywhere, even in the earliest days, the culture of flax was
encouraged. By 1640 the Court of Massachusetts passed two orders
directing the growth of flax, ascertaining what colonists were skilful
in breaking, spinning, weaving, ordering that boys and girls be taught
to spin, and offering a bounty for linen grown, spun, and woven in the
colony. Connecticut passed similar measures. Soon spinning-classes were
formed, and every family ordered to spin so many pounds of flax a year,
or to pay a fine. The industry received a fresh impulse through the
immigration of about one hundred Irish families from Londonderry. They
settled in New Hampshire on the Merrimac about 1719, and spun and wove
with far more skill than prevailed among those English settlers who had
already become Americans. They established a manufactory according to
Irish methods, and attempts at a similar establishment were made in
Boston.

There was much public excitement over spinning, and prizes were offered
for quantity and quality. Women, rich as well as poor, appeared on
Boston Common with their wheels, thus making spinning a popular holiday
recreation. A brick building was erected as a spinning-school costing
*15,000, and a tax was placed on carriages and coaches in 1757 to
support it. At the fourth anniversary in 1749 of the "Boston Society for
promoting Industry and Frugality," three hundred "young spinsters" spun
on their wheels on Boston Common. And a pretty sight it must have been:
the fair young girls in the quaint and pretty dress of the times, shown
to us in Hogarth's prints, spinning on the green grass under the great
trees. In 1754, on a like occasion, a minister preached to the
"spinsters," and a collection of *453 was taken up. This was in currency
of depreciated value. At the same time premiums were offered in
Pennsylvania for weaving linen and spinning thread. Benjamin Franklin
wrote in his _Poor Richard's Almanac_:--

    "Many estates are spent in the getting,
    Since women for tea forsook spinning and knitting."

But the German colonists long before this had been famous flax-raisers.
A Pennsylvania poet in 1692 descanted on the flax-workers of
Germantown:--

    "Where live High German people and Low Dutch
    Whose trade in weaving linen cloth is much,
    There grows the flax as also you may know,
    That from the same they do divide the tow."

Father Pastorius, their leader, forever commemorated his interest in his
colony and in the textile arts by his choice for a device for a seal.
Whittier thus describes it in his _Pennsylvania Pilgrim_:--

    "Still on the town-seal his device is found,
    Grapes, flax, and thread-spool on a three-foil ground
    With _Vinum, Linum, et Textrinum_ wound."

Virginia was earlier even in awakening interest in manufacturing flax
than Massachusetts, for wild flax grew there in profusion, ready for
gathering. In 1646 two houses were ordered to be erected at Jamestown as
spinning-schools. These were to be well built and well heated. Each
county was to send to these schools two poor children, seven or eight
years old, to be taught carding, spinning, and knitting. Each child was
to be supplied by the county authorities on admission to the school with
six barrels of Indian corn, a pig, two hens, clothing, shoes, a bed,
rug, blanket, two coverlets, a wooden tray, and two pewter dishes or
cups. This plan was not wholly carried out. Prizes in tobacco (which was
the current money of Virginia in which everything was paid) were given,
however, for every pound of flax, every skein of yarn, every yard of
linen of Virginia production, and soon flax-wheels and spinners were
plentiful.

Intelligent attempts were made to start these industries in the South.
Governor Lucas wrote to his daughter, Mrs. Pinckney, in Charleston,
South Carolina, in 1745:--

     "I send by this Sloop two Irish servants, viz.: a Weaver and a
     Spinner. I am informed Mr. Cattle hath produced both Flax and Hemp.
     I pray you will purchase some, and order a loom and spinning-wheel
     to be made for them, and set them to work. I shall order Flax sent
     from Philadelphia with seed, that they may not be idle. I pray you
     will also purchase Wool and sett them to making Negroes clothing
     which may be sufficient for my own People.

     "As I am afraid one Spinner can't keep a Loom at work, I pray you
     will order a Sensible Negroe woman or two to learn to spin, and
     wheels to be made for them; the man Servant will direct the
     Carpenter in making the loom and the woman will direct the Wheel."

The following year Madam Pinckney wrote to her father that the woman had
spun all the material they could get, so was idle; that the loom had
been made, but had no tackling; that she would make the harness for it,
if two pounds of shoemaker's thread were sent her. The sensible negro
woman and hundreds of others learned well to spin, and excellent cloth
has been always woven in the low country of Carolina, as well as in the
upper districts, till our own time.

In the revolt of feeling caused by the Stamp Act, there was a constant
social pressure to encourage the manufacture and wearing of goods of
American manufacture. As one evidence of this movement the president and
first graduating class of Rhode Island College--now Brown
University--were clothed in fabrics made in New England. From
Massachusetts to South Carolina the women of the colonies banded
together in patriotic societies called Daughters of Liberty, agreeing to
wear only garments of homespun manufacture, and to drink no tea. In
many New England towns they gathered together to spin, each bringing her
own wheel. At one meeting seventy linen-wheels were employed. In Rowley,
Massachusetts, the meeting of the Daughters is thus described:--

     "A number of thirty-three respectable ladies of the town met at
     sunrise with their wheels to spend the day at the house of the
     Rev'd Jedediah Jewell, in the laudable design of a spinning match.
     At an hour before sunset, the ladies there appearing neatly
     dressed, principally in homespun, a polite and generous repast of
     American production was set for their entertainment. After which
     being present many spectators of both sexes, Mr. Jewell delivered a
     profitable discourse from Romans xii. 2: "Not slothful in business,
     fervent in spirit, serving the Lord."

Matters of church and patriotism were never far apart in New England; so
whenever the spinners gathered at New London, Newbury, Ipswich, or
Beverly, they always had an appropriate sermon. A favorite text was
Exodus xxxv. 25: "And all the women that were wise-hearted did spin with
their hands." When the Northboro women met, they presented the results
of their day's work to their minister. There were forty-four women and
they spun 2223 knots of linen and tow, and wove one linen sheet and two
towels.

By Revolutionary times General Howe thought "Linen and Woollen Goods
much wanted by the Rebels"; hence when he prepared to evacuate Boston he
ordered all such goods carried away with him. But he little knew the
domestic industrial resources of the Americans. Women were then most
proficient in spinning. In 1777 Miss Eleanor Fry of East Greenwich,
Rhode Island, spun seven skeins one knot linen yarn in one day, an
extraordinary amount. This was enough to weave twelve linen
handkerchiefs. At this time when there were about five or six skeins to
a pound of flax, the pay for spinning was sixpence a skein. The Abb*
Robin wondered at the deftness of New England spinners.

In 1789 an outcry was raised against the luxury said to be eating away
the substance of the new country. The poor financial administration of
the government seemed deranging everything; and again a social movement
was instituted in New England to promote "Oeconomy and Household
Industries." "The Rich and Great strive by example to convince the
Populace of their error by Growing their own Flax and Wool, having some
one in the Family to dress it, and all the Females spin, several weave
and bleach the linen." The old spinning-matches were revived. Again the
ministers preached to the faithful women "Oeconomists," who thus
combined religion, patriotism, and industry. Truly it was, as a
contemporary writer said, "a pleasing Sight: some spinning, some
reeling, some carding cotton, some combing flax," as they were preached
to.

Within a few years attempts have been made in England and Ireland to
encourage flax-growing, as before it is spun it gives employment to
twenty different classes of laborers, many parts of which work can be
done by young and unskilled children. In Courtrai, where hand spinning
and weaving of flax still flourish, the average earnings of a family are
three pounds a week. In Finland homespun linen still is made in every
household. The British Spinning and Weaving School in New Bond Street is
an attempt to revive the vanished industry in England. In our own
country it is pleasant to record that the National Association of Cotton
Manufacturers is planning to start on a large scale the culture and
manufacture of flax in our Eastern states; this is not, however, with
any thought of reviving either the preparation, spinning, or weaving of
flax by old-time hand processes.




CHAPTER IX

WOOL CULTURE AND SPINNING

_With a Postscript on Cotton_


The art of spinning was an honorable occupation for women as early as
the ninth century; and it was so universal that it furnished a legal
title by which an unmarried woman is known to this day. Spinster is the
only one of all her various womanly titles that survives; webster,
shepster, litster, brewster, and baxter are obsolete. The occupations
are also obsolete save those indicated by shepster and baxter--that is,
the cutting out of cloth and baking of bread; these are the only duties
among them all that she still performs.

The wool industry dates back to prehistoric man. The patience, care, and
skill involved in its manufacture have ever exercised a potent influence
on civilization. It is, therefore, interesting and gratifying to note
the intelligent eagerness of our first colonists for wool culture. It
was quickly and proudly noted of towns and of individuals as a proof of
their rapid and substantial progress that they could carry on any of the
steps of the cloth industry. Good Judge Sewall piously exulted when
Brother Moody started a successful fulling-mill in Boston. Johnson in
his _Wonder-working Providence_ tells with pride that by 1654 New
Englanders "have a fulling-mill and caused their little ones to be very
dilligent in spinning cotton-woole, many of them having been clothiers
in England." This has ever seemed to me one of the fortunate conditions
that tended to the marked success of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, that
so many had been "clothiers" or cloth-workers in England; or had come
from shires in England where wool was raised and cloth made, and hence
knew the importance of the industry as well as its practical workings.

As early as 1643 the author of _New England's First Fruits_ wrote: "They
are making linens, fustians, dimities, and look immediately to woollens
from their own sheep." Johnson estimated the number of sheep in the
colony of Massachusetts, about 1644, as three thousand. Soon the great
wheel was whirring in every New England house. The raising of sheep was
encouraged in every way. They were permitted to graze on the commons; it
was forbidden to send them from the colony; no sheep under two years old
could be killed to sell; if a dog killed a sheep, the dog's owner must
hang him and pay double the cost of the sheep. All persons who were not
employed in other ways, as single women, girls, and boys, were required
to spin. Each family must contain one spinner. These spinners were
formed into divisions or "squadrons" of ten persons; each division had a
director. There were no drones in this hive; neither the wealth nor high
station of parents excused children from this work. Thus all were
levelled to one kind of labor, and by this levelling all were also
elevated to independence. When the open expression of revolt came, the
homespun industries seemed a firm rock for the foundation of liberty.
People joined in agreements to eat no lamb or mutton, that thus sheep
might be preserved, and to wear no imported woollen cloth. They gave
prizes for spinning and weaving.

Great encouragement was given in Virginia in early days to the raising
and manufacture of wool. The Assembly estimated that five children not
over thirteen years of age could by their work readily spin and weave
enough to keep thirty persons clothed. Six pounds of tobacco was paid to
any one bringing to the county court-house where he resided a yard of
homespun woollen cloth, made wholly in his family; twelve pounds of
tobacco were offered for reward for a dozen pair of woollen hose
knitted at home. Slaves were taught to spin; and wool-wheels and
wool-cards are found by the eighteenth century on every inventory of
planters' house furnishings.

The Pennsylvania settlers were early in the encouragement of wool
manufacture. The present industry of hosiery and knit goods long known
as Germantown goods began with the earliest settlers of that
Pennsylvania town. Stocking-weavers were there certainly as early as
1723; and it is asserted there were knitting-machines. At any rate, one
Mack, the son of the founder of the Dunkers, made "leg stockings" and
gloves. Rev. Andrew Burnaby, who was in Germantown in 1759, told of a
great manufacture of stockings at that date. In 1777 it was said that a
hundred Germantown stocking-weavers were out of employment through the
war. Still it was not till 1850 that patents for knitting-machines were
taken out there.

Among the manufactures of the province of Pennsylvania in 1698 were
druggets, serges, and coverlets; and among the registered tradesmen were
dyers, fullers, comb-makers, card-makers, weavers, and spinners. The
Swedish colony as early as 1673 had the wives and daughters "employing
themselves in spinning wool and flax and many in weaving." The fairs
instituted by William Penn for the encouragement of domestic
manufactures and trade in general, which were fostered by Franklin and
continued till 1775, briskly stimulated wool and flax manufacture.

In 1765 and in 1775 rebellious Philadelphians banded together with
promises not to eat or suffer to be eaten in their families any lamb or
"meat of the mutton kind"; in this the Philadelphia butchers, patriotic
and self-sacrificing, all joined. A wool-factory was built and fitted up
and an appeal made to the women to save the state. In a month four
hundred wool-spinners were at work. But the war cut off the supply of
raw material, and the manufacture languished. In 1790, after the war,
fifteen hundred sets of irons for spinning-wheels were sold from one
shop, and mechanics everywhere were making looms.

New Yorkers were not behindhand in industry. Lord Cornbury wrote home to
England, in 1705, that he "had seen serge made upon Long Island that any
man might wear; they make very good linen for common use; as for Woollen
I think they have brought that to too great perfection."

In Cornbury's phrase, "too great perfection," may be found the key for
all the extraordinary and apparently stupid prohibitions and
restrictions placed by the mother-country on colonial wool manufacture.
The growth of the woollen industry in any colony was regarded at once by
England with jealous eyes. Wool was the pet industry and principal
staple of Great Britain; and well it might be, for until the reign of
Henry VIII. English garments from head to foot were wholly of wool, even
the shoes. Wool was also received in England as currency. Thomas Fuller
said, "The wealth of our nation is folded up in broadcloth." Therefore,
the Crown, aided by the governors of the provinces, sought to maintain
England's monopoly by regulating and reducing the culture of wool in
America through prohibiting the exportation to England of any American
wool or woollen materials. In 1699 all vessels sailing to England from
the colonies were prohibited taking on board any "Wool, Woolfells,
Shortlings, Moslings, Wool Flocks, Worsteds, Bays, Bay or Woollen Yarn,
Cloath, Serge, Kersey, Says, Frizes, Druggets, Shalloons, etc."; and an
arbitrary law was passed prohibiting the transportation of home-made
woollens from one American province to another. These laws were never
fully observed and never checked the culture and manufacture of wool in
this country. Hence our colonies were spared the cruel fate by which
England's same policy paralyzed and obliterated in a few years the
glorious wool industry of Ireland. Luckily for us, it is further across
the Atlantic Ocean than across St. George's Channel.

The "all-wool goods a yard wide," which we so easily purchase to-day,
meant to the colonial dame or daughter the work of many weeks and
months, from the time when the fleeces were first given to her deft
hands. Fleeces had to be opened with care, and have all pitched or
tarred locks, dag-locks, brands, and feltings cut out. These cuttings
were not wasted, but were spun into coarse yarn. The white locks were
carefully tossed and separated and tied into net bags with tallies to be
dyed. Another homely saying, "dyed in the wool," showed a process of
much skill. Blue, in all shades, was the favorite color, and was dyed
with indigo. So great was the demand for this dye-stuff that
indigo-pedlers travelled over the country selling it.

Madder, cochineal, and logwood dyed beautiful reds. The bark of red oak
or hickory made very pretty shades of brown and yellow. Various flowers
growing on the farm could be used for dyes. The flower of the goldenrod,
when pressed of its juice, mixed with indigo, and added to alum, made a
beautiful green. The juice of the pokeberry boiled with alum made
crimson dye, and a violet juice from the petals of the iris, or
"flower-de-luce," that blossomed in June meadows, gave a delicate light
purple tinge to white wool.

The bark of the sassafras was used for dyeing yellow or orange color,
and the flowers and leaves of the balsam also. Fustic and copperas gave
yellow dyes. A good black was obtained by boiling woollen cloth with a
quantity of the leaves of the common field-sorrel, then boiling again
with logwood and copperas.

In the South there were scores of flowers and leaves that could be used
for dyes. During the Revolutionary War one enterprising South Carolinian
got a guinea a pound for a yellow dye he made from the sweet-leaf or
horse-laurel. The leaves and berries of gall-berry bush made a good
black much used by hatters and weavers. The root of the barberry gave
wool a beautiful yellow, as did the leaves of the devil's-bit. The
petals of Jerusalem artichoke and St.-John's-wort dyed yellow. Yellow
root is a significant name and reveals its use: oak, walnut, or maple
bark dyed brown. Often the woven cloth was dyed, not the wool.

The next process was carding; the wool was first greased with rape oil
or "melted swine's grease," which had to be thoroughly worked in; about
three pounds of grease were put into ten pounds of wool. Wool-cards were
rectangular pieces of thin board, with a simple handle on the back or
at the side; to this board was fastened a smaller rectangle of strong
leather, set thick with slightly bent wire teeth, like a coarse brush.
The carder took one card with her left hand, and resting it on her knee,
drew a tuft of wool across it several times, until a sufficient quantity
of fibre had been caught upon the wire teeth. She then drew the second
wool-card, which had to be warmed, across the first several times, until
the fibres were brushed parallel by all these "tummings." Then by a
deft and catchy motion the wool was rolled or carded into small fleecy
rolls which were then ready for spinning.

Wool-combs were shaped like the letter T, with about thirty long steel
teeth from ten to eighteen inches long set at right angles with the top
of the T. The wool was carefully placed on one comb, and with careful
strokes the other comb laid the long staple smooth for hard-twisted
spinning. It was tedious and slow work, and a more skilful operation
than carding; and the combs had to be kept constantly heated; but no
machine-combing ever equalled hand-combing. There was a good deal of
waste in this combing, that is, large clumps of tangled wool called noil
were combed out. They were not really wasted, we may be sure, by our
frugal ancestors, but were spun into coarse yarn.

An old author says: "The action of spinning must be learned by practice,
not by relation." Sung by the poets, the grace and beauty of the
occupation has ever shared praise with its utility.

Wool-spinning was truly one of the most flexible and alert series of
movements in the world, and to its varied and graceful poises our
grandmothers may owe part of the dignity of carriage that was so
characteristic of them. The spinner stood slightly leaning forward,
lightly poised on the ball of the left foot; with her left hand she
picked up from the platform of the wheel a long slender roll of the soft
carded wool about as large round as the little finger, and deftly wound
the end of the fibres on the point of the spindle. She then gave a
gentle motion to the wheel with a wooden peg held in her right hand,
and seized with the left the roll at exactly the right distance from the
spindle to allow for one "drawing." Then the hum of the wheel rose to a
sound like the echo of wind; she stepped backward quickly, one, two,
three steps, holding high the long yarn as it twisted and quivered.
Suddenly she glided forward with even, graceful stride and let the yarn
wind on the swift spindle. Another pinch of the wool-roll, a new turn of
the wheel, and _da capo_.

The wooden peg held by the spinner deserves a short description; it
served the purpose of an elongated finger, and was called a driver,
wheel-peg, etc. It was about nine inches long, an inch or so in
diameter; and at about an inch from the end was slightly grooved in
order that it might surely catch the spoke and thus propel the wheel.

It was a good day's work for a quick, active spinner to spin six skeins
of yarn a day. It was estimated that to do that with her quick backward
and forward steps she walked over _twenty miles_.

The yarn might be wound directly upon the wooden spindle as it was spun,
or at the end of the spindle might be placed a spool or broach which
twisted with the revolving spindle, and held the new-spun yarn. This
broach was usually simply a stiff roll of paper, a corn-cob, or a roll
of corn-husk. When the ball of yarn was as large as the broach would
hold, the spinner placed wooden pegs in certain holes in the spokes of
her spinning-wheel and tied the end of the yarn to one peg. Then she
took off the belt of her wheel and whirred the big wheel swiftly round,
thus winding the yarn on the pegs into hanks or clews two yards in
circumference, which were afterwards tied with a loop of yarn into knots
of forty threads; while seven of these knots made a skein. The
clock-reel was used for winding yarn, also a triple reel.

The yarn might be wound from the spindle into skeins in another way,--by
using a hand-reel, an implement which really did exist in every
farmhouse, though the dictionaries are ignorant of it, as they are of
its universal folk-name, niddy-noddy. This is fortunately preserved in
an every-day domestic riddle:--

    "Niddy-noddy, niddy-noddy,
    Two heads and one body."

The three pieces of these niddy-noddys were set together at curious
angles, and are here shown rather than described in words. Holding the
reel in the left hand by seizing the central "body" or rod, the yarn was
wound from end to end of the reel, by an odd, waving, wobbling motion,
into knots and skeins of the same size as by the first process
described. One of these niddy-noddys was owned by Nabby Marshall of
Deerfield, who lived to be one hundred and four years old. The other
was brought from Ireland in 1733 by Hugh Maxwell, father of the
Revolutionary patriot Colonel Maxwell. As it was at a time of English
prohibitions and restrictions of American manufactures, this
niddy-noddy, as an accessory and promoter of colonial wool manufacture,
was smuggled into the country.

Sometimes the woollen yarn was spun twice; especially if a close,
hard-twisted thread was desired, to be woven into a stiff, wiry cloth.
When there were two, the first spinning was called a roving. The single
spinning was usually deemed sufficient to furnish yarn for knitting,
where softness and warmth were the desired requisites.

It was the pride of a good spinster to spin the finest yarn, and one
Mistress Mary Prigge spun a pound of wool into fifty hanks of
eighty-four thousand yards; in all, nearly forty-eight miles. If the
yarn was to be knitted, it had to be washed and cleansed. The wife of
Colonel John May, a prominent man in Boston, wrote in her diary for one
day:--

     "A large kettle of yarn to attend upon. Lucretia and self rinse,
     scour through many waters, get out, dry, attend to, bring in, do up
     and sort 110 score of yarn; this with baking and ironing. Then went
     to hackling flax."

It should be remembered that all those bleaching processes, the wringing
out and rinsing in various waters, were far more wearisome then than
they would be to-day, for the water had to be carried laboriously in
pails and buckets, and drawn with pumps and well-sweeps; there were no
pipes and conduits. Happy the household that had a running brook near
the kitchen door.

Of course all these operations and manipulations usually occupied many
weeks and months, but they could be accomplished in a much shorter time.
When President Nott of Union College, and his brother Samuel, the famous
preacher, were boys on a stony farm in Connecticut, one of the brothers
needed a new suit of clothes, and as the father was sick there was
neither money nor wool in the house. The mother sheared some half-grown
fleece from her sheep, and in less than a week the boy wore it as
clothing. The shivering and generous sheep were protected by wrappings
of braided straw. During the Revolution, it is said that in a day and a
night a mother and her daughters in Townsend, Massachusetts, sheared a
black and a white sheep, carded from the fleece a gray wool, spun, wove,
cut and made a suit of clothes for a boy to wear off to fight for
liberty.

The wool industry easily furnished home occupation to an entire family.
Often by the bright firelight in the early evening every member of the
household might be seen at work on the various stages of wool
manufacture or some of its necessary adjuncts, and varied and cheerful
industrial sounds fill the room. The old grandmother, at light and easy
work, is carding the wool into fleecy rolls, seated next the fire; for,
as the ballad says, "she was old and saw right dimly." The mother,
stepping as lightly as one of her girls, spins the rolls into woollen
yarn on the great wheel. The oldest daughter sits at the clock-reel,
whose continuous buzz and occasional click mingles with the humming rise
and fall of the wool-wheel, and the irritating scratch, scratch, of the
cards. A little girl at a small wheel is filling quills with woollen
yarn for the loom, not a skilled work; the irregular sound shows her
intermittent industry. The father is setting fresh teeth in a wool-card,
while the boys are whittling hand-reels and loom-spools.

One of the household implements used in wool manufacture, the wool-card,
deserves a short special history as well as a description. In early days
the leather back of the wool-card was pierced with an awl by hand; the
wire teeth were cut off from a length of wire, were slightly bent, and
set and clinched one by one. These cards were laboriously made by many
persons at home, for their household use. As early as 1667 wire was made
in Massachusetts; and its chief use was for wool-cards. By
Revolutionary times it was realized that the use of wool-cards was
almost the mainspring of the wool industry, and *100 bounty was offered
by Massachusetts for card-wire made in the state from iron mined in what
they called then the "United American States." In 1784 a machine was
invented by an American which would cut and bend thirty-six thousand
wire teeth an hour. Another machine pierced the leather backs. This gave
a new employment to women and children at home and some spending-money.
They would get boxes of the bent wire teeth and bundles of the leather
backs from the factories and would set the teeth in the backs while
sitting around the open fire in the evening. They did this work, too,
while visiting--spending an afternoon; and it was an unconscious and
diverting work like knitting; scholars set wool-cards while studying,
and schoolmistresses while teaching. This method of manufacture was
superseded fifteen years later by a machine invented by Amos Whittemore,
which held, cut, and pierced the leather, drew the wire from a reel, cut
and bent a looped tooth, set it, bent it, fastened the leather on the
back, and speedily turned out a fully made card. John Randolph said this
machine had everything but an immortal soul. By this time spinning and
weaving machinery began to crowd out home work, and the machine-made
cards were needed to keep up with the increased demand. At last machines
crowded into every department of cloth manufacture; and after
carding-machines were invented in England--great rollers set with
card-teeth--they were set up in many mills throughout the United States.

Families soon sent all their wool to these mills to be carded even when
it was spun and woven at home. It was sent rolled up in a homespun sheet
or blanket pinned with thorns; and the carded rolls ready for spinning
were brought home in the same way, and made a still bigger bundle which
was light in weight for its size. Sometimes a red-cheeked farmer's lass
would be seen riding home from the carding-mill, through New England
woods or along New England lanes, with a bundle of carded wool towering
up behind her bigger than her horse.

Of the use and manufacture of cotton I will speak very shortly. Our
greatest, cheapest, most indispensable fibre is also our latest one. It
never formed one of the homespun industries of the colonies; in fact, it
was never an article of extended domestic manufacture.

A little cotton was always used in early days for stuffing bedquilts,
petticoats, warriors' armor, and similar purposes. It was bought by the
pound, East India cotton, in small quantities; the seeds were picked
out one by one, by hand; it was carded on wool-cards, and spun into a
rather intractable yarn which was used as warp for linsey-woolsey and
rag carpets. Even in England no cotton weft, no all-cotton fabrics, were
made till after 1760, till Hargreave's time. Sometimes a twisted yarn
was made of one thread of cotton and one of wool which was knit into
durable stockings. Cotton sewing-thread was unknown in England.
Pawtucket women named Wilkinson made the first cotton thread on their
home spinning-wheels in 1792.

Cotton was planted in America, Bancroft says, in 1621, but MacMaster
asserts it was never seen growing here till after the Revolution save as
a garden ornament with garden flowers. This assertion seems oversweeping
when Jefferson could write in a letter in 1786:--

     "The four southermost States make a great deal of cotton. Their
     poor are almost entirely clothed with it in winter and summer. In
     winter they wear shirts of it and outer clothing of cotton and wool
     mixed. In summer their shirts are linen, but the outer clothing
     cotton. The dress of the women is almost entirely of cotton,
     manufactured by themselves, except the richer class, and even many
     of these wear a great deal of homespun cotton. It is as well
     manufactured as the calicoes of Europe."

Still cotton was certainly not a staple of consequence. We were the last
to enter the list of cotton-producing countries and we have surpassed
them all.

The difficulty of removing the seeds from the staple practically thrust
cotton out of common use. In India a primitive and cumbersome set of
rollers called a churka partially cleaned India cotton. A Yankee
schoolmaster, Eli Whitney, set King Cotton on a throne by his invention
of the cotton-gin in 1792. This comparatively simple but inestimable
invention completely revolutionized cloth manufacture in England and
America. It also changed general commerce, industrial development, and
the social and economic order of things, for it gave new occupations and
offered new modes of life to hundreds of thousands of persons. It
entirely changed and cheapened our dress, and altered rural life both in
the North and South.

A man could, by hand-picking, clean only about a pound of cotton a day.
The cotton-gin cleaned as much in a day as had taken the hand-picker a
year to accomplish. Cotton was at once planted in vast amounts; but it
certainly was not plentiful till then. Whitney had never seen cotton nor
cotton seed when he began to plan his invention; nor did he, even in
Savannah, find cotton to experiment with until after considerable
search.

After the universal manufacture and use of the cotton-gin, negro women
wove cotton in Southern houses, sometimes spinning their own cotton
thread; more frequently buying it mill-spun. But, after all, this was in
too small amounts to be of importance; it needed the spinning-jennies
and power-looms of vast mills to use up the profuse supply afforded by
the gin.

A very interesting account of the domestic manufacture of cotton in
Tennessee about the year 1850 was written for me by Mrs. James Stuart
Pilcher, State Regent of the Daughters of the American Revolution in
Tennessee. A portion of her pleasant story reads:--

     "There were two looms in the loom-room, and two negro women were
     kept busy all the time weaving; there were eight or ten others who
     did nothing but spin cotton and woollen thread; others spooled and
     reeled it into hanks. The spinning was all done on the large wheel,
     from the raw cotton; a corn-shuck was wrapped tightly around the
     steel spindle, then the thread was run and spun on this shuck until
     it was full; then these were reeled off into hanks of thread, then
     spooled on to corn-cobs with holes burned through them. These were
     placed in an upright frame, with long slender rods of hickory wood
     something like a ramrod run through them. The frame held about one
     hundred of these cob-spools; the end of the cotton thread from
     each spool was gathered up by an experienced warper who carried all
     the threads back and forth on the large warping-bars; this was a
     difficult task; only the brightest negro women were warpers. The
     thread had been dyed before spooling and the vari-colored
     cob-spools could be arranged to make stripes lengthwise of the
     cloth; and the hanks had also been dipped in a boiling-hot sizing
     made of meal and water. The warp-threads were carefully taken from
     the bars and rolled upon the wooden beam of the loom, the ends
     passed through the sley and tied. The weaver then began her work.
     The thread for the filling (called the woof by the negroes) was
     reeled from the hank on the winding-blades, upon small canes about
     four inches long which, when full, were placed in the wooden
     shuttles. These women spun and wove all the clothing worn by the
     negroes on the plantation; cotton cloth for women and men in the
     summer time; and jeans for the men; linsey-woolsey for the women
     and children for winter. All were well clothed. The women taught us
     to spin, but the weavers were cross and would not let us touch the
     loom, for they said we broke the threads in the warp. My
     grandmother never interfered with them when they were careful in
     their work. We would say, 'Please make Aunt Rhody let me weave!'
     She answered, 'No, she is managing the loom; if she is willing,
     very well; if not, you must not worry her.' We thought it great fun
     to try to weave, but generally had to pay Aunt Rhody for our
     meddling by giving her cake, ribbons, or candy."

The colonists were constantly trying to find new materials for spinning,
and also used many makeshifts. Parkman, in his _Old R*gime_, tells that
in the year 1704, when a ship was lost that was to bring cloth and wool
to Quebec, a Madame de R*pentigny, one of the aristocrats of the
French-Canadian colony, spun and wove coarse blankets of nettle and
linden bark. Similar experiments were made by the English colonists.
Coarse thread was spun out of nettle-fibre by pioneers in western New
York. Levi Beardsley, in his _Reminiscences_, tells of his mother at the
close of the last century, in her frontier home at Richfield Springs,
weaving bags and coarse garments from the nettles which grew so rankly
everywhere in that vicinity. Deer hair and even cow's hair was collected
from the tanners, spun with some wool, and woven into a sort of felted
blanket.

Silk-grass, a much-vaunted product, was sent back to England on the
first ships and was everywhere being experimented with. Coarse wicking
was spun from the down of the milkweed--an airy, feathery material that
always looks as if it ought to be put to many uses, yet never has seemed
of much account in any trial that has been made of it.




CHAPTER X

HAND-WEAVING


Any one who passed through a New England village on a week day a century
ago, or rode up to the door of a Pennsylvania or Virginia house, would
probably be greeted with a heavy thwack-thwack from within doors, a
regular sound which would readily be recognized by every one at that
time as proceeding from weaving on a hand-loom. The presence of these
looms was, perhaps, not so universal in every house as that of their
homespun companions, the great and little wheels, for they required more
room; but they were found in every house of any considerable size, and
in many also where they seemed to fill half the building. Many
households had a loom-room, usually in an ell part of the house; others
used an attic or a shed-loft as a weaving-room. Every farmer's daughter
knew how to weave as well as to spin, yet it was not recognized as
wholly woman's work as was spinning; for there was a trade of
hand-weaving for men, to which they were apprenticed. Every town had
professional weavers. They were a universally respected class, and
became the ancestors of many of the wealthiest and most influential
citizens to-day. They took in yarn and thread to weave on their looms at
their own homes at so much a yard; wove their own yarn into stuffs to
sell; had apprentices to their trade; and also went out working by the
day at their neighbors' houses, sometimes carrying their looms many
miles with them.

Weavers were a universally popular element of the community. The
travelling weaver was, like all other itinerant tradesmen of the day, a
welcome newsmonger; and the weaver who took in weaving was often a
stationary gossip, and gathered inquiring groups in his loom-room; even
children loved to go to his door to beg for bits of colored
yarn--thrums--which they used in their play, and also tightly braided to
wear as shoestrings, hair-laces, etc.

The hand-loom used in the colonies, and occasionally still run in
country towns to-day, is an historic machine, one of great antiquity and
dignity. It is, perhaps, the most absolute bequest of past centuries
which we have had, unchanged, in domestic use till the present time. You
may see a loom like the Yankee one shown here in Giotto's famous fresco
in the Campanile, painted in 1335; another, still the same, in Hogarth's
_Idle Apprentice_, painted just four hundred years later. Many tribes
and nations have hand-looms resembling our own; but these are exactly
like it. Hundreds of thousands of men and women of the generations of
these seven centuries since Giotto's day have woven on just such looms
as our grandparents had in their homes.

This loom consists of a frame of four square timber posts, about seven
feet high, set about as far apart as the posts of a tall four-post
bedstead, and connected at top and bottom by portions of a frame. From
post to post across one end, which may be called the back part of the
loom, is the yarn-beam, about six inches in diameter. Upon it are wound
the warp-threads, which stretch in close parallels from it to the
cloth-beam at the front of the loom. The cloth-beam is about ten inches
in diameter, and the cloth is wound as the weaving proceeds.

The yarn-beam or yarn-roll or warp-beam was ever a very important part
of the loom. It should be made of close-grained, well-seasoned wood. The
iron axle should be driven in before the beam is turned. If the beam is
ill-turned and irregular in shape, no even, perfect woof can come from
it. The slightest variation in its dimensions makes the warp run off
unevenly, and the web never "sets" well, but has some loose threads.

We have seen the homespun yarn, whether linen or woollen, left in
carefully knotted skeins after being spun and cleaned, bleached, or
dyed. To prepare it for use on the loom a skein is placed on the swift,
an ingenious machine, a revolving cylindrical frame made of strips of
wood arranged on the principle of the lazy-tongs so the size can be
increased or diminished at pleasure, and thus take on and hold firmly
any sized skein of yarn. This cylinder is supported on a centre shaft
that revolves in a socket, and may be set in a heavy block on the floor
or fastened to a table or chair. A lightly made, carved swift was a
frequent lover's gift. I have a beautiful one of whale-ivory,
mother-of-pearl, and fine white bone which was made on a three years'
whaling voyage by a Nantucket sea-captain as a gift to his waiting
bride; it has over two hundred strips of fine white carved bone. Both
quills for the weft and spools for the warp may be wound from the swift
by a quilling-wheel, small wheels of various shapes, some being like a
flax-wheel, but more simple in construction. The quill or bobbin is a
small reed or quill, pierced from end to end, and when wound is set in
the recess of the shuttle.

When the piece is to be set, a large number of shuttles and spools are
filled in advance. The full spools are then placed in a row one above
the other in a spool-holder, sometimes called a skarne or scarne. As I
have not found this word in any dictionary, ancient or modern, its
correct spelling is unknown. Sylvester Judd, in his _Margaret_, spells
it skan. Skean and skayn have also been seen. Though ignored by
lexicographers, it was an article and word in established and universal
use in the colonies. I have seen it in newspaper advertisements of
weavers' materials, and in inventories of weavers' estates, spelled _ad
libitum_; and elderly country folk, both in the North and South, who
remember old-time weaving, know it to-day.

It seems to me impossible to explain clearly in words, though it is
simple enough in execution, the laying of the piece, the orderly placing
the warp on the warp-beam. The warping-bars are entirely detached from
the loom, are an accessory, not a part of it. They are two upright bars
of wood, each holding a number of wooden pins set at right angles to
the bars, and held together by crosspieces. Let forty full spools be
placed in the skarne, one above the other. The free ends of threads from
the spools are gathered in the hand, and fastened to a pin at the top of
the warping-bars. The group of threads then are carried from side to
side of the bars, passing around a pin on one bar, then around a pin on
the opposite bar, to the extreme end; then back again in the same way,
the spools revolving on wires and freely playing out the warp-threads,
till a sufficient length of threads are stretched on the bars. Weavers
of olden days could calculate exactly and skilfully the length of the
threads thus wound. You take off twenty yards of threads if you want to
weave twenty yards of cloth. Forty warp-threads make what was called a
bout or section. A warp of two hundred threads was designated as a warp
of five bouts, and the bars had to be filled five times to set it unless
a larger skarne with more spools was used. From the warping-bars these
bouts are carefully wound on the warp-beam.

Without attempting to explain farther, let us consider the yarn-beam
neatly wound with these warp-threads and set in the loom--that the
"warping" and "beaming" are finished. The "drawing" or "entering" comes
next; the end of each warp-thread in regular order is "thumbed" or drawn
in with a warping-needle through the eye or "mail" of the harness, or
heddle.

The heddle is a row of twines, cords, or wires called leashes, which are
stretched vertically between two horizontal bars or rods, placed about a
foot apart. One rod is suspended by a pulley at the top of the loom; and
to the lower rod is hitched the foot-treadle. In the middle of each
length of twine or wire is the loop or eye, through which a warp-thread
is passed. In ordinary weaving there are two heddles, each fastened to a
foot-treadle.

There is a removable loom attachment which when first shown to me was
called a raddle. It is not necessary in weaving, but a convenience and
help in preparing to weave. It is a wooden bar with a row of closely
set, fine, wooden pegs. This is placed in the loom, and used only during
the setting of the warp to keep the warp of proper width; the pegs keep
the bouts or sections of the warp disentangled during the "thumbing in"
of the threads through the heddle-eyes. This attachment is also called a
ravel or raivel; and folk-names for it (not in the dictionary) were
wrathe and rake; the latter a very good descriptive title.

The warp-threads next are drawn through the interspaces between two
dents or strips of the sley or reed. This is done with a wire hook
called a sley-hook or reed-hook. Two warp-threads are drawn in each
space.

The sley or reed is composed of a row of short and very thin parallel
strips of cane or metal, somewhat like comb-teeth, called dents, fixed
at both ends closely in two long, strong, parallel bars of wood set two
or three or even four inches apart. There may be fifty or sixty of these
dents to one inch, for weaving very fine linen; usually there are about
twenty, which gives a "bier"--a counting out of forty warp-threads to
each inch. Sleys were numbered according to the number of biers they
held. The number of dents to an inch determined the "set of the web,"
the fineness of the piece. This reed is placed in a groove on the lower
edge of a heavy batten (or lay or lathe). This batten hangs by two
swords or side bars and swings from an axle or "rocking tree" at the top
of the loom. As the heavy batten swings on its axle, the reed forces
with a sharp blow every newly placed thread of the weft into its proper
place close to the previously woven part of the texture. This is the
heavy thwacking sound heard in hand-weaving.

On the accurate poise of the batten depends largely the evenness of the
completed woof. If the material is heavy, the batten should be swung
high, thus having a good sweep and much force in its blow. The batten
should be so poised as to swing back itself into place after each blow.

The weaver, with foot on treadle, sits on a narrow, high bench, which is
fastened from post to post of the loom. James Maxwell, the weaver-poet,
wrote under his portrait in his _Weaver's Meditations_, printed in
1756:--

    "Lo! here 'twixt Heaven and Earth I swing,
      And whilst the Shuttle swiftly flies,
    With cheerful heart I work and sing
      And envy none beneath the skies."

There are three motions in hand-weaving. First: by the action of one
foot-treadle one harness or heddle, holding every alternate warp-thread,
is depressed from the level of the entire expanse of warp-threads.

The separation of the warp-threads by this depression of one harness is
called a shed. Some elaborate patterns have six harnesses. In such a
piece there are ten different sheds, or combinations of openings of the
warp-threads. In a four-harness piece there are six different sheds.

Room is made by this shed for the shuttle, which, by the second motion,
is thrown from one side of the loom to the other by the weaver's hand,
and thus goes over every alternate thread. The revolving quill within
the shuttle lets the weft-thread play out during this side-to-side
motion of the shuttle. The shuttle must not be thrown too sharply else
it will rebound and make a slack thread in the weft. By the third motion
the batten crowds this weft-thread into place. Then the motion of the
other foot-treadle forces down the other warp-threads which pass through
the second set of harnesses, the shuttle is thrown back through this
shed, and so on.

In order to show the amount of work, the number of separate motions in a
day's work in weaving of close woollen cloth like broadcloth (which was
only about three yards), we must remember that the shuttle was thrown
over three thousand times, and the treadles pressed down and batten
swung the same number of times.

A simple but clear description of the process of weaving is given in
Ovid's _Metamorphoses_, thus Englished in 1724:--

                        "The piece prepare
    And order every slender thread with care;
    The web enwraps the beam, the reed divides
    While through the widening space the shuttle glides,
    Which their swift hands receive, then poised with lead
    The swinging weight strikes close the inserted thread."

A loom attachment which I puzzled over was a tomble or tumble, the word
being seen in eighteenth-century lists, etc., yet absolutely
untraceable. I at last inferred, and a weaver confirmed my inference,
that it was a corruption of temple, an attachment made of flat, narrow
strips of wood as long as the web is wide, with hooks or pins at the end
to catch into the selvage of the cloth, and keep the cloth stretched
firmly an even width while the reed beats the weft-thread into place.

There were many other simple yet effective attachments to the loom.
Their names have been upon the lips of scores of thousands of
English-speaking people, and the words are used in all treatises on
weaving; yet our dictionaries are dumb and ignorant of their existence.
There was the pace-weight, which kept the warp even; and the bore-staff,
which tightened the warp. When a sufficient length of woof had been
woven (it was usually a few inches), the weaver proceeded to do what was
called drawing a bore or a sink. He shifted the temple forward; rolled
up the cloth on the cloth bar, which had a crank-handle and ratchets;
unwound the warp a few inches, shifted back the rods and heddles, and
started afresh.

Looms and their appurtenances were usually made by local carpenters; and
it can plainly be seen that thus constant work was furnished to many
classes of workmen in every community,--wood-turners, beam-makers,
timber-sawyers, and others. The various parts of the looms were in
unceasing demand, though apparently they never wore out. The sley was
the most delicate part of the mechanism. Good sley-makers could always
command high prices for their sleys. I have seen one whole and good,
which has been in general use for weaving rag carpets ever since the War
of 1812, for which a silver dollar was paid. Spools were turned and
marked with the maker's initials. There were choice and inexplicable
lines in the shape of a shuttle as there are in a boat's hull. When a
shuttle was carefully shaped, scraped, hollowed out, tipped with steel,
and had the maker's initials burnt in it, it was a proper piece of
work, of which any craftsman might be proud. Apple-wood and boxwood were
the choice for shuttles.

Smaller looms, called tape-looms, braid-looms, belt-looms, garter-looms,
or "gallus-frames," were seen in many American homes, and useful they
were in days when linen, cotton, woollen, or silk tapes, bobbins, and
webbings or ribbons were not common and cheap as to-day. Narrow bands
such as tapes, none-so-pretty's, ribbons, caddises, ferretings,
inkles, were woven on these looms for use for garters, points,
glove-ties, hair-laces, shoestrings, belts, hat-bands, stay-laces,
breeches-suspenders, etc.

These tape-looms are a truly ancient form of appliance for the
hand-weaving of narrow bands,--a heddle-frame. They are rudely primitive
in shape, but besides serving well the colonists in all our original
states, are still in use among the Indian tribes in New Mexico and in
Lapland, Italy, and northern Germany. They are scarcely more than a
slightly shaped board so cut in slits that the centre of the board is a
row of narrow slats. These slats are pierced in a row by means of a
heated wire and the warp-threads are passed through the holes.

A common form of braid-loom was one that was laid upon a table. A still
simpler form was held upright on the lap, the knees being firmly
pressed into semicircular indentations cut for the purpose on either
side of the board which formed the lower part of the loom. The top of
the loom was steadied by being tied with a band to the top of a chair,
or a hook in the wall. It was such light and pretty work that it seemed
merely an industrial amusement, and girls carried their tape-looms to a
neighbor's house for an afternoon's work, just as they did their
knitting-needles and ball of yarn. A fringe-loom might also be
occasionally found, for weaving decorative fringes; these were more
common in the Hudson River valley than elsewhere.

I have purposely given minute, but I trust not tiresome, details of the
operation of weaving on a hand-loom, because a few years more will see
the last of those who know the operation and the terms used. The fact
that so many terms are now obsolete proves how quickly disuse brings
oblivion. When in a country crowded full of weavers, as was England
until about 1845, the knowledge has so suddenly disappeared, need we
hope for much greater memory or longer life here? When what is termed
the Westmoreland Revival of domestic industries was begun eight or ten
years ago, the greatest difficulty was found in obtaining a hand-loom.
No one knew how to set it up, and it was a long time before a weaver
could be found to run it and teach others its use.

The first half of this century witnessed a vital struggle in England,
and to an extent in America, between hand and power machinery, and an
interesting race between spinning and weaving. Under old-time conditions
it was calculated that it took the work of four spinners, who spun
swiftly and constantly, to supply one weaver. As spinning was ever what
was known as a by-industry,--that is, one that chiefly was done by being
caught up at odd moments,--the supply both in England and America did
not equal the weavers' demands, and ten spinners had to be calculated to
supply yarn for one weaver. Hence weavers never had to work very hard;
as a rule, they could have one holiday in the week. What with Sundays,
wakes, and fairs, Irish weavers worked only two hundred days in the
year. In England the weaver often had to spend one day out of the six
hunting around the country for yarn for weft. So inventive wits were set
at work to enlarge the supply of yarn, and spinning machinery was the
result. Thereafter the looms and weavers were pushed hard and had to
turn to invention. The shuttle had always simply been passed from one
hand to the other of the weaver on either side of the web. The
fly-shuttle was now invented, which by a simple piece of machinery,
worked by one hand, threw the shuttle swiftly backward and forward, and
the loom was ahead in the race. Then came the spinning-jenny, which spun
yarn with a hundred spindles on each machine. But this was for weft
yarns, and did not make strong warps. Finally Arkwright supplied this
lack in water-twist or "throstle-spun" yarn. All these inventions again
overcrowded the weavers; all attempts at hand-spinning of cotton had
become quickly extinct. Wool-spinning lingered longer. Five Tomlinson
sisters,--the youngest forty years old,--with two pair of wool-cards and
five hand-wheels, paid the rent of their farm, kept three cows, one
horse, had a ploughed field, and made prime butter and eggs. One sister
clung to her spinning till 1822. Power-looms were invented to try to use
up the jenny's supply of yarn, but these did not crowd out hand-looms.
Weavers never had so good wages. It was the Golden Age of Cotton. Some
families earned six pounds a week; good clothes, even to the extent of
ruffled shirts, good furniture, even to silver spoons, good food,
plentiful ale and beer, entered every English cottage with the weaving
of cotton and wool. A far more revolutionary and more hated machine than
the power-loom was the combing-machine called Big Ben.

    "Come all ye Master Combers, and hear of our Big Ben.
    He'll comb more wool than fifty of your men
    With their hand-combs, and comb-pots, and such old-fashioned way."

Flax-spinning and linen-weaving by power machinery were slower in being
established. Englishmen were halting in perfecting these machines.
Napoleon offered in 1810 a million francs for a flax-spinning machine. A
clever Frenchman claimed to have invented one in response in a single
day, but similar clumsy machines had then been running in England for
twenty years. By 1850 men, women, and children--combers, spinners, and
weavers--were no longer individual workers; they had become part of that
great monster, the mill-machinery. Riots and misery were the first
result of the passing of hand weaving and spinning.

In the _Vision of Piers Ploughman_ (1360) are these lines:--

    "Cloth that cometh fro the wevyng
    Is nought comly to were
    Till it be fulled under foot
    Or in fullyng stokkes
    Wasshen wel with water
    And with taseles cracched,
    Y-touked and y-tented
    And under taillours hande."

Just so in the colonies four centuries later, cloth that came from the
weaving was not comely to wear till it was fulled under foot or in
fulling-stocks, washed well in water, scratched and dressed with
teazels, dyed and tented, and put in the tailor's hands. Nor did the
roll of centuries bring a change in the manner of proceeding. If grease
had been put on the wool when it was carded, or sizing in the warp for
the weaving, it was washed out by good rinsing from the woven cloth.
This became now somewhat uneven and irregular in appearance, and full of
knots and fuzzes which were picked out with hand-tweezers by burlers
before it was fulled or milled, as it was sometimes called. The
fulling-stocks were a trough in which an enormous oaken hammer was made
to pound up and down, while the cloth was kept thoroughly wet with warm
soap and water, or fullers' earth and water. Naturally this thickened
the web much and reduced it in length. It was then teazelled; that is, a
nap or rough surface was raised all over it by scratching it with
weavers' teazels or thistles. Many wire brushes and metal substitutes
have been tried to take the place of nature's gift to the cloth-worker,
the teazel, but nothing has been invented to replace with full
satisfaction that wonderful scratcher. For the slender recurved bracts
of the teazel heads are stiff and prickly enough to roughen thoroughly
the nap of the cloth, yet they yield at precisely the right point to
keep from injuring the fabric.

If the cloth were to be "y-touked," that is, dyed, it was done at this
period, and it was then "y-tented," spread on the tenter-field and
caught on tenter-hooks, to shrink and dry.

Nowadays, we sometimes cut or crop the nap with long shears, and boil
the web to give it a lustre, and ink it to color any ill-dyed fibres,
and press it between hot plates before it goes to the tailor's hands;
but these injurious processes were omitted in olden times. Worsted
stuffs were not fulled, but were woven of hand-combed wool.

Linen webs after they were woven had even more manipulations to come to
them than woollen stuffs. In spite of all the bleaching of the linen
thread, it still was light brown in color, and it had to go through at
least twoscore other processes, of bucking, possing, rinsing, drying,
and bleaching on the grass. Sometimes it was stretched out on pegs with
loops sewed on the selvage edge. This bleaching was called crofting in
England, and grassing in America. Often it was thus spread on the grass
for weeks, and was slightly wetted several times a day; but not too wet,
else it would mildew. In all, over forty bleaching operations were
employed upon "light linens." Sometimes they were "soured" in buttermilk
to make them purely white. Thus at least sixteen months had passed since
the flaxseed had been sown, in which, truly, the spinster had not eaten
the bread of idleness. In the winter months the fine, white, strong
linen was made into "board cloths" or tablecloths, sheets, pillow-biers,
aprons, shifts, shirts, petticoats, short gowns, gloves, cut from the
spinner's own glove pattern, and a score of articles for household use.
These were carefully marked, and sometimes embroidered with home-dyed
crewels, as were also splendid sets of bed-hangings, valances, and
testers for four-post bedsteads.

The homespun linens that were thus spun and woven and bleached were one
of the most beautiful expressions and types of old-time home life. Firm,
close-woven, and pure, their designs were not greatly varied, nor was
their woof as symmetrical and perfect as modern linens--but thus were
the lives of those who made them; firm, close-woven in neighborly
kindness, with the simplicity both of innocence and ignorance; their
days had little variety, and life was not altogether easy, and, like the
web they wove, it was sometimes narrow. I am always touched when
handling these homespun linens with a consciousness of nearness to the
makers; with a sense of the energy and strength of those enduring women
who were so full of vitality, of unceasing action, that it does not seem
to me they can be dead.

The strong, firm linen woven in many struggling country homes was too
valuable and too readily exchangeable and salable to be kept wholly for
farm use, especially when there were so few salable articles produced on
the farm. It was sold or more frequently exchanged at the village store
for any desired commodity, such as calico, salt, sugar, spices, or tea.
It readily sold for forty-two cents a yard. Therefore the boys and even
the fathers did not always have linen shirts to wear. From the tow
which had been hatchelled out from harl a coarse thread was spun and
cloth was woven which was made chiefly into shirts and smocks and tow
"tongs" or "skilts," which were loose flapping summer trousers which
ended almost half-way from the knee to the ankle. This tow stuff was
never free from prickling spines, and it proved, so tradition states, an
absolute instrument of torture to the wearer, until frequent washings
had worn it out and thus subdued its knots and spines.

A universal stuff woven in New Hampshire by the Scotch-Irish
linen-weavers who settled there, and who influenced husbandry and
domestic manufactures and customs all around them, was what was known as
striped frocking. It was worn also to a considerable extent in
Connecticut and Massachusetts. The warp was strong white cotton or tow
thread, the weft of blue and white stripes made by weaving alternately a
shuttleful of indigo-dyed homespun yarn and one of white wool or tow.
Many boys grew to manhood never wearing, except on Sundays, any kind of
coat save a long, loose, shapeless jacket or smock of this striped
frocking, known everywhere as a long-short. The history of the old town
of Charmingfare tells of the farmers in that vicinity tying tight the
two corners of this long-short at the waist and thus making a sort of
loose bag in which various articles could be carried. Sylvester Judd, in
his _Margaret_, the classic of old New England life, has his country
women dressed also in long-shorts, and tells of the same fabric.

Another material which was universal in country districts had a flax or
tow warp, and a coarser slack-twisted cotton or tow filling. This cloth
was dyed and pressed and was called fustian. It was worth a shilling a
yard in 1640. It was named in the earliest colonial accounts, and was in
truth the ancient fustian, worn throughout Europe in the Middle Ages for
monks' robes and laborers' dress, not the stuff to-day called fustian.
We read in _The Squier of Low Degree_, "Your blanketts shall be of
fustayne."

Another coarse cloth made in New England, Pennsylvania, Virginia, and
the Carolinas was crocus. The stuff is obsolete and the name is
forgotten save in a folk-saying which lingers in Virginia--"as coarse as
crocus." Homespun stuff for the wear of negroes was known and sold as
"Virginia cloth." Vast quantities of homespun cloth was made on
Virginian plantations, thousands of yards annually at Mount Vernon for
slave-wear, and for the house-mistress as well.

It is told of Martha Washington that she always carefully dyed all her
worn silk gowns and silk scraps to a desired shade, ravelled them with
care, wound them on bobbins, and had them woven into chair and
cushion covers. Sometimes she changed the order of things. To a group of
visitors she at one time displayed a dress of red and white striped
material of which the white stripes were cotton, and the red, ravelled
chair covers and silk from the General's worn-out stockings.

Checked linen, with bars of red or blue, was much used for bedticks,
pillow-cases, towelling, aprons, and even shirts and summer trousers. In
all the Dutch communities in New York it was woven till this century.
When Benjamin Tappan first attended meeting in Northampton,
Massachusetts, in 1769, he was surprised to find that all the men in the
church but four or five wore checked shirts. Worcester County men always
wore white shirts, and deemed a checked shirt the mark of a Connecticut
River man.

It is impossible to overestimate the durability of homespun materials. I
have "flannel sheets" a hundred years old, the lightest, most healthful,
and agreeable summer covering for children's beds that ever any one was
blessed with. Cradle sheets of this thin, closely woven, white worsted
stuff are not slimsy like thin flannel, yet are softer than flannel.
Years of use with many generations of children have left them firm and
white.

Grain-bags have been seen that have been in constant and hard use for
seventy years, homespun from coarse flax and hemp. I have several
delightful bags about four feet long and two feet wide, of rather
closely woven pure white homespun linen, not as heavy, however, as
crash. They have the date of their manufacture, 1789, and the initials
of the weaver, and have linen tapes woven in at each side. They are used
every spring--packed with furs and blankets and placed in cedar chests,
and with such usage will easily round out another century.

The product of these hand-looms which has lingered longest in country
use, especially in the Northern states, and which is the sole product of
all the hand-looms that I know to be set up and in use in New England
(except one notable example to which I will refer hereafter), is the rag
carpet. It is still in constant demand and esteem on farms and in small
villages and towns, and is an economical and thrifty, and may be a
comely floor-covering. The accompanying illustration of a woman weaving
rag carpet on an old hand-loom is from a fine photograph taken by Mrs.
Arthur Sewall of Bath, Maine, and gives an excellent presentment of the
machine and the process.

The warp of these carpets was, in olden times, a strong, heavy flaxen
thread. To-day it is a heavy cotton twine bought machine-spun in balls
or hanks. The weft or rilling is narrow strips of all the clean and
vari-colored rags that accumulate in a household.

The preparing of this filling requires considerable judgment. Heavy
woollen cloth should be cut in strips about half an inch wide. If there
were sewn with these strips of light cotton stuff of equal width, the
carpet would prove a poor thing, heavy in spots and slimsy in others.
Hence lighter stuffs should be cut in wider strips, as they can then be
crowded down by the batten of the loom to the same width and substance
as the heavy wools. Calicoes, cottons, all-wool delaines, and lining
cambrics should be cut in strips at least an inch wide. These strips, of
whatever length they chance to be, are sewn into one continuous strip,
which is rolled into a hard ball weighing about a pound and a quarter.
It is calculated that one of these balls will weave about a yard of
carpeting. The joining must be strongly and neatly done and should not
be bunchy. An aged weaver who had woven many thousand yards of carpeting
assured me the prettiest carpets were always those in which every
alternate strip was white or very light in color. Another thrifty way of
using old material is the cutting into inch-wide strips of woven ingrain
or three-ply carpet. This, through the cotton warp, makes a really
artistic monochrome floor-covering.

In one of the most romantic and beautiful spots in old Narragansett
lives the last of the old-time weavers; not a weaver who desultorily
weaves a run of rag carpeting to earn a little money in the intervals of
other work, or to please some importunate woman-neighbor who has saved
up her rags; but a weaver whose lifelong occupation, whose only means of
livelihood, has always been, and is still, hand-weaving. I have told his
story at some length in my book, _Old Narragansett_,--of his kin, his
life, his work. His home is at the cross-roads where three townships
meet, a cross-roads where has often taken place that curious and
senseless survival of old-time tradition and superstition--shift
marriages. A widow, a cousin of the Weaver Rose's father, was the last
to undergo this ordeal; clad only in her shift, she thrice crossed the
King's Highway and was thus married to avoid payment of her first
husband's debts. It is not far from the old Church Foundation of St.
Paul's of Narragansett, and the tumble-down house of Sexton Martin Read,
the prince of Narragansett weavers in ante-Revolutionary days. Weaver
Rose learned to weave from his grandfather, who was an apprentice of
Weaver Read.

In the loom-room of Weaver Rose a veritable atmosphere of the past still
lingers. Everything appertaining to the manufacture of homespun
materials may there be found. Wheels, skarnes, sleys, warping-bars,
clock-reels, swifts, quilling-wheels, vast bales of yarns and
thread--for he no longer spins his thread and yarn. There are piles of
old and new bed coverlets woven in those fanciful geometric designs,
which are just as the ancient Gauls wove them in the Bronze Age, and
which formed a favorite bed-covering of our ancestors, and of country
folk to-day. These coverlets the weaver calls by the good old English
name of hap-harlot, a name now obsolete in England, which I have never
seen used in text of later date than Holinshead's _Survey of London_,
written four hundred years ago. His manuscript pattern-book is over a
hundred years old, and has the rules for setting the harnesses. They
bear many pretty and odd names, such as "Rosy Walk," "Baltimore
Beauty," "Girl's Love," "Queen's Fancy," "Devil's Fancy," "Everybody's
Beauty," "Four Snow Balls," "Five Snow Balls," "Bricks and Blocks,"
"Gardener's Note," "Green Vails," "Rose in Bloom," "Pansies and Roses in
the Wilderness," "Flag-Work," "Royal Beauty," "Indian March," "Troy's
Beauty," "Primrose and Diamonds," "Crown and Diamonds," "Jay's Fancy,"
"In Summer and Winter," "Boston Beauty," and "Indian War." One named
"Bony Part's March" was very pretty, as was "Orange Peel," and "Orange
Trees"; "Dog Tracks" was even checkerwork, "Blazing Star," a
herring-bone design. "Perry's Victory" and "Lady Washington's Delight"
show probably the date of their invention, and were handsome designs,
while the "Whig Rose from Georgia," which had been given to the weaver
by an old lady a hundred years old, had proved a poor and ugly thing.
"Kapa's Diaper" was a complicated design which took "five harnesses" to
make. "Rattlesnake's Trail," "Wheels of Fancy," "Chariot Wheels and
Church Windows," and "Bachelor's Fancy" were all exceptionally fine
designs.

Sometimes extremely elaborate patterns were woven in earlier days. An
exquisitely woven coverlet as fine as linen sheeting, a corner of which
is here shown, has an elaborate border of patriotic and Masonic
emblems, patriotic inscriptions, and the name of the maker, a Red Hook,
Hudson valley, dame of a century ago, who wove this beautiful bedspread
as the crowning treasure of her bridal outfit. The "setting-up" of such
a design as this is entirely beyond my skill as a weaver to explain or
even comprehend. But it is evident that the border must have been woven
by taking up a single warp-thread at a time, with a wire needle, not by
passing a shuttle, as it is far too complicated and varied for any
treadle-harness to be able to make a shed for a shuttle.

Hand-weaving in Weaver Rose's loom-room to-day is much simplified in
many of its preparatory details by the employment of machine-made
materials. The shuttles and spools are made by machinery; and more
important still, both warp and weft is purchased ready-spun from mills.
The warp is simply a stout cotton twine or coarse thread bought in balls
or hanks; while various cheap mill-yarns or what is known as worsteds or
coarse crewels are used as filling. These, of course, are cheap, but
alas! are dyed with fleeting or garish aniline dyes. No new blue yarn
can equal either in color or durability the old indigo-dyed, homespun,
hard-twisted yarn made on a spinning-wheel. Germantown, early in the
field in American wool manufacture, still supplies nearly all the yarn
for his hand-looms.

The transition half a century or more ago from what Horace Bushnell
called "mother and daughter power to water and steam power," was a
complete revolution in domestic life, and indeed of social manners as
well. When a people spin and weave and make their own dress, you have in
this very fact the assurance that they are home-bred, home-living,
home-loving people. You are sure, also, that the lives of the women are
home-centred. The chief cause for women's intercourse with any of the
outside world except neighborly acquaintance, her chief knowledge of
trade and exchange, is in shopping, dressmaking, etc. These causes
scarcely existed in country communities a century ago. The daughters who
in our days of factories leave the farm for the cotton-mill, where they
perform but one of the many operations in cloth manufacture, can never
be as good home-makers or as helpful mates as the homespun girls of our
grandmothers' days; nor can they be such co-workers in great public
movements.

In the summer of 1775, when all the preparations for the War of the
Revolution were in a most unsettled and depressing condition, especially
the supplies for the Continental army, the Provincial Congress made a
demand on the people for thirteen thousand warm coats to be ready for
the soldiers by cold weather. There were no great contractors then as
now to supply the cloth and make the garments, but by hundreds of
hearthstones throughout the country wool-wheels and hand-looms were
started eagerly at work, and the order was filled by the handiwork of
patriotic American women. In the record book of some New England towns
may still be found the lists of the coat-makers. In the inside of each
coat was sewed the name of the town and the maker. Every soldier
volunteering for eight months' service was given one of these homespun,
home-made, all-wool coats as a bounty. So highly were these "Bounty
Coats" prized, that the heirs of soldiers who were killed at Bunker Hill
before receiving their coats were given a sum of money instead. The list
of names of soldiers who then enlisted is known to this day as the "Coat
Roll," and the names of the women who made the coats might form another
roll of honor. The English sneeringly called Washington's army the
"Homespuns." It was a truthful nickname, but there was deeper power in
the title than the English scoffers knew.

The starting up of power-looms and the wonderful growth of woollen
manufacture did not crowd out homespun as speedily in America as in
England. When the poet Whittier set out from the Quaker farmhouse to go
to Boston to seek his fortune, he wore a homespun suit every part of
which, even the horn buttons, was of domestic manufacture. Many a man
born since Whittier has grown to manhood clothed for every-day wear
wholly with homespun; and many a boy is living who was sent to college
dressed wholly in a "full-cloth" suit, with horn buttons or buttons made
of discs of heavy leather.

During the Civil War spinning and weaving were revived arts in the
Confederate cities; and, as ever in earlier days, proved a most valuable
economic resource under restricted conditions. In the home of a friend
in Charleston, South Carolina, an old, worm-eaten loom was found in a
garret where it had lain since the embargo in 1812. It was set up in
1863, and plantation carpenters made many like it for neighbors and
fellow-citizens. All women in the mountain districts knew how to use the
loom, and taught weaving to many others, both white and black. A portion
of the warp, which was cotton, was spun at home; more was bought from a
cotton-factory. My friend sacrificed a great number of excellent
wool-mattresses; this wool was spun into yarn and used for weft, and
formed a most grateful and dignified addition to the varied, grotesque,
and interesting makeshifts of the wardrobe of the Southern Confederacy.

Though weaving on hand-looms in our Northern and Middle states is
practically extinct, save as to the weaving of rag carpets (and that
only in few communities), in the South all is different. In all the
mountain and remote regions of Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, the
Carolinas, and I doubt not in Alabama, both among the white and negro
mountain-dwellers, hand-weaving is still a household art. The
descendants of the Acadians in Louisiana still weave and wear homespun.
The missions in the mountains encourage spinning and weaving; and it is
pleasant to learn that many women not only pursue these handicrafts for
their home use, but some secure a good living by hand-weaving, earning
ten cents a yard in weaving rag carpets. The coverlet patterns resemble
the ones already described. Names from Waynesville, North Carolina, are
"Washington's Diamond Ring," "Nine Chariot Wheels"; from Pinehurst come
"Flowery Vine," "Double Table," "Cat Track," "Snow Ball and Dew Drop,"
"Snake Shed," "Flowers in the Mountains." At Pinehurst the old settlers,
of sturdy Scotch stock, all weave. They make cloth, all cotton; cloth of
cotton warp and wool filling called drugget; dimity, a heavy cotton used
for coverlets; a yarn jean which has wool warp and filling, and cotton
jean which is cotton warp and wool filling; homespun is a heavy cloth,
of cotton and wool mixed. All buy cotton warp or "chain," as they call
it, ready-spun from the mills. This is known by the name of
bunch-thread. These Pinehurst weavers still use home-made dyes. Cotton
is dyed black with dye made by steeping the bark of the "Black Jack" or
scrub-oak mixed with red maple bark. Wool is dyed black with a mixture
of gall-berry leaves and sumac berries; for red they use a moss which
they find growing on the rocks, and which may be the lichen _Roccella
tinctoria_ or dyer's-moss; also madder root, and sassafras bark. Yellow
is dyed with laurel leaves, or "dye-flower," a yellow flower of the
sunflower tribe; laurel leaves and "dye-flower" together made
orange-red. Blue is obtained from the plentiful wild indigo; and for
green, the cloth or yarn is first dyed blue with indigo, then boiled in
a decoction of hickory bark and laurel leaves. A bright yellow is
obtained from a clay which abounds in that neighborhood, probably like a
red ferruginous limestone found in Tennessee, which gives a splendid,
fast color; when the clay is baked and ground it gives a fine, artistic,
dull red. Purple dye comes from cedar tops and lilac leaves; brown from
an extract of walnut hulls.

The affectionate regard which all good workmen have for their tools and
implements in handcrafts is found among these Southern weavers. One
assures me that her love for her loom is as for a human companion. The
machines are usually family heirlooms that have been owned for several
generations, and are treasured like relics.




CHAPTER XI

GIRLS' OCCUPATIONS


Hatchelling and carding, spinning and reeling, weaving and bleaching,
cooking, candle and cheese making, were not the only household
occupations of our busy grandmothers when they were young; a score of
domestic duties kept ever busy their ready hands.

Some notion of the qualifications of a housekeeper over a century ago
may be obtained from this advertisement in the _Pennsylvania Packet_ of
September 23, 1780:

     "Wanted at a Seat about half a day's journey from Philadelphia, on
     which are good improvements and domestics, A single Woman of
     unsullied Reputation, an affable, cheerful, active and amiable
     Disposition; cleanly, industrious, perfectly qualified to direct
     and manage the female Concerns of country business, as raising
     small stock, dairying, marketing, combing, carding, spinning,
     knitting, sewing, pickling, preserving, etc., and occasionally to
     instruct two young Ladies in those Branches of Oeconomy, who, with
     their father, compose the Family. Such a person will be treated
     with respect and esteem, and meet with every encouragement due to
     such a character."

Respect and esteem, forsooth! and due encouragement to such a miracle of
saintliness and capacity; light terms indeed to apply to such a
character.

There is, in the library of the Connecticut Historical Society, a diary
written by a young girl of Colchester, Connecticut, in the year 1775.
Her name was Abigail Foote. She set down her daily work, and the entries
run like this:--

     "Fix'd gown for Prude,--Mend Mother's Riding-hood,--Spun short
     thread,--Fix'd two gowns for Welsh's girls,--Carded tow,--Spun
     linen,--Worked on Cheese-basket,--Hatchel'd flax with Hannah, we
     did 51 lbs. apiece,--Pleated and ironed,--Read a Sermon of
     Doddridge's,--Spooled a piece,--Milked the cows,--Spun linen, did
     50 knots,--Made a Broom of Guinea wheat straw,--Spun thread to
     whiten,--Set a Red dye,--Had two Scholars from Mrs. Taylor's,--I
     carded two pounds of whole wool and felt Nationly,--Spun harness
     twine,--Scoured the pewter."

She tells also of washing, cooking, knitting, weeding the garden,
picking geese, etc., and of many visits to her friends. She dipped
candles in the spring, and made soap in the autumn. This latter was a
trying and burdensome domestic duty, but the soft soap was important for
home use.

All the refuse grease from cooking, butchering, etc., was stored through
the winter, as well as wood-ashes from the great fireplaces. The first
operation was to make the lye, to "set the leach." Many families owned a
strongly made leach-barrel; others made a sort of barrel from a section
of the bark of the white birch. This barrel was placed on bricks or set
at a slight angle on a circular groove in a wood or stone base; then
filled with ashes; water was poured in till the lye trickled or leached
out through an outlet cut in the groove, into a small wooden tub or
bucket. The water and ashes were frequently replenished as they wasted,
and the lye accumulated in a large tub or kettle. If the lye was not
strong enough, it was poured over fresh ashes. An old-time receipt
says:--

     "The great Difficulty in making Soap come is the want of Judgment
     of the Strength of the Lye. If your Lye will bear up an Egg or a
     Potato so you can see a piece of the Surface as big as a Ninepence
     it is just strong enough."

The grease and lye were then boiled together in a great pot over a fire
out of doors. It took about six bushels of ashes and twenty-four pounds
of grease to make a barrel of soap. The soft soap made by this process
seemed like a clean jelly, and showed no trace of the repulsive grease
that helped to form it. A hard soap also was made with the tallow of the
bayberry, and was deemed especially desirable for toilet use. But little
hard soap was purchased, even in city homes.

It was a common saying: "We had bad luck with our soap," or good luck.
The soap was always carefully stirred one way. The "Pennsylvania Dutch"
used a sassafras stick to stir it. A good smart worker could make a
barrel of soap in a day, and have time to sit and rest in the afternoon
and talk her luck over, before getting supper.

This soft soap was used in the great monthly washings which, for a
century after the settlement of the colonies, seem to have been the
custom. The household wash was allowed to accumulate, and the washing
done once a month, or in some households once in three months.

Thomas Tusser's rhymed instructions to good housekeepers as to the
washing contain chiefly warnings to the housekeeper against thieves,
thus:--

              "Dry sun, dry wind,
              Safe bind, safe find.
    Go wash well, saith summer, with sun I shall dry;
    Go wring well, saith winter, with wind so shall I.
    To trust without heed is to venture a joint,
    Give tale and take count is a housewifely point."

Abigail Foote wrote of making a broom of Guinea wheat. This was not
broom-corn, for that useful plant was not grown in Connecticut for the
purpose of broom-making till twenty years or more after she wrote her
diary. Brooms and brushes were made of it in Italy nearly two centuries
ago. Benjamin Franklin, who was ever quick to use and develop anything
that would benefit his native country, and was ever ready to take a
hint, noted a few seeds of broom-corn hanging on an imported brush. He
planted these seeds and raised some of the corn; and Thomas Jefferson
placed broom-corn among the productions of Virginia in 1781. By this
time many had planted it, but no systematic plan of raising broom-corn
abundantly for the manufacture of brooms was planned till 1798, when
Levi Dickenson, a Yankee farmer of Hadley, Massachusetts, planted half
an acre. From this he made between one and two hundred brooms which he
peddled in a horse-cart in neighboring towns. The following year he
planted an acre; and the tall broom-corn with its spreading panicles
attracted much attention. Though he was thought visionary when he
predicted that broom manufacture would be the greatest industry in the
county, and though he was sneeringly told that only Indians ought to
make brooms, he persevered; and his neighbors finally planted and made
brooms also. He carried brooms soon to Pittsfield, to New London, and in
1805 to Albany and Boston. So rapid was the increase of manufacture that
in 1810 seventy thousand brooms were made in the county. Since then
millions of dollars' worth have gone forth from the farms and villages
in his neighborhood.

Mr. Dickenson at first scraped the seed from the brush with a knife;
then he used a sort of hoe; then a coarse comb like a ripple-comb. He
tied each broom by hand, with the help of a negro servant. Much of this
work could be done by little girls, who soon gave great help in broom
manufacture; though the final sewing (when the needle was pressed
through with a leather "palm" such as sailors use) had to be done by the
strong hands of grown women and men.

Doubtless Abigail Foote made many an "Indian broom," as well as her
brooms of Guinea wheat, which may have been a special home manufacture
of her neighborhood; for many fibres, leaves, and straws were used
locally in broom-making.

Another duty of the women of the old-time household was the picking of
domestic geese. Geese were raised for their feathers more than as food.
In some towns every family had a flock, and their clanking was heard all
day and sometimes all night. They roamed the streets all summer, eating
grass by the highways and wallowing in the puddles. Sometimes they were
yoked with a goose-yoke made of a shingle with a hole in it. In
midwinter they were kept in barnyards, but the rest of the year they
spent the night in the street, each flock near the home of its owner. It
is said that one old goose of each flock always kept awake and stood
watch; and it was told in Hadley, Massachusetts, that if a young man
chanced to be out late, as for instance a-courting, his return home
wakened the geese throughout the village, who sounded the unseasonable
hour with a terrible clamor. They made so much noise on summer Sundays
that they seriously disturbed church services; and became such nuisances
that at last the boys killed whole flocks.

Goose-picking was cruel work. Three or four times a year were the
feathers stripped from the live birds. A stocking was pulled over the
bird's head to keep it from biting. Sometimes the head was thrust into a
goose basket. The pickers had to wear old clothes and tie covers over
the hair, as the down flew everywhere. The quills, used for pens, were
never pulled but once from a goose. Palladius, _On Husbondrie_, written
in the fourth century, and Englished in the fifteenth century, tells of
goose-picking:--

    "Twice a yere deplumed may they be,
    In spryngen tyme and harvest tyme."

The old Latin and English times for picking were followed in the New
World. Among the Dutch, geese were everywhere raised; for feather-beds
were, if possible, more desired by the Dutch than the English.

In a work entitled _Good Order established in Pennsylvania and New
Jersey_, written by a Quaker in 1685, he urges that schools be provided
where girls could be instructed in "the spinning of flax, sewing, and
making all sorts of useful needle work, knitting of gloves and
stockings, making of straw-works, as hats, baskets, etc., or any other
useful art or mystery." It was a century before his "making of
straw-works" was carried out, not till larger importations of straw hats
and bonnets came to this country.

When the beautiful and intricate straw bonnets of Italian braid,
Genoese, Leghorn, and others, were brought here, they were too costly
for many to purchase; and many attempts, especially by country-bred
girls, were made to plait at home straw braids to imitate these envied
bonnets. Many towns claim the first American straw bonnet; in fact, the
attempts were almost simultaneous. To Betsey Metcalf of Providence,
Rhode Island, is usually accorded the honor of starting the straw-hat
business in America. The earliest recorded effort to manufacture straw
head-wear is shown in a patent given to Mrs. Sibylla Masters of
Philadelphia, for using palmetto and straw for hats. This Mrs. Masters
was the first American, man or woman, ever awarded a patent in England.
The first patent issued by the United States to a woman was also for an
invention in straw-plaiting. A Connecticut girl, Miss Sophia Woodhouse,
was given a prize for "leghorn hats" which she had plaited; and she took
out a patent in 1821 for a new material for bonnets. It was the stalks,
above the upper joint, of spear-grass and redtop grass growing so
profusely in Weathersfield. From this she had a national reputation,
and a prize of twenty guineas was given her the same year by the London
Society of Arts. The wife of President John Quincy Adams wore one of
these bonnets, to the great pride of her husband.

When the bonnet was braided and sewed into shape, it had to be bleached,
for it was the dark natural straw. I don't know the domestic process in
general use, but an ingenious family of sisters in Newburyport thus
accomplished their bleaching. They bored holes in the head of a barrel;
tied strings to each new bonnet; passed the strings through the holes
and carefully plugged the openings with wood. This left the bonnets
hanging inside the barrel, which was set over an old-fashioned
foot-stove filled with hot coals on which sulphur had been placed. The
fumes of the burning sulphur arose and filled the barrel, and were
closely retained by quilts wrapped around it. When the bonnets were
taken out, they were clear and white. The base of a lignum-vit* mortar
made into the proper shape with layers of pasteboard formed the mould on
which the bonnet crown was pressed.

Even before they could spin girls were taught to knit, as soon as their
little hands could hold the needles. Sometimes girls four years of age
could knit stockings. Boys had to knit their own suspenders. All the
stockings and mittens for the family, and coarse socks and mittens for
sale, were made in large numbers. Much fine knitting was done, with many
intricate and elaborate stitches; those known as the "herring-bone" and
"fox and geese" were great favorites. By the use of curious stitches
initials could be knit into mittens; and it is said that one young New
Hampshire girl, using fine flaxen yarn, knit the whole alphabet and a
verse of poetry into a pair of mittens; which I think must have been
long-armed mitts for ladies' wear, to have space enough for the poetry.

To knit a pair of double mittens was a sharp and long day's work. Nancy
Peabody's brother of Shelburne, New Hampshire, came home one night and
said he had lost his mittens while chopping in the woods. Nancy ran to a
bundle of wool in the garret, carded and spun a big hank of yarn that
night. It was soaked and scoured the next morning, and in twenty-four
hours from the time the brother announced his loss he had a fine new
pair of double mittens. A pair of double hooked and pegged mittens would
last for years. Pegging, I am told, was heavy crocheting.

An elaborate and much-admired form of knitting was the bead bags and
purses which were so fashionable in the early years of this century,
though I have seen some knitted bags of colonial days.

Great variety and ingenuity were shown in these bags and purses. Some
bore landscapes and figures; others were memorials done in black and
white and purple beads, having so-called "mourning designs," such as
weeping willows, gravestones, urns, etc., with the name of the deceased
person and date of death. Beautiful bags were knitted to match
wedding-gowns. Knitted purses were a favorite token and gift from fair
hands to husband or lover. Watch chains were more unusual; they were
knit in a geometrical design, were about a yard long and about
three-eighths of an inch in diameter. One I saw had in tiny letters in
gilt beads the date and the words "Remember the Giver." In all these
knitted and crocheted bags the beads had to be strung by a rule in
advance; in an elaborate pattern of many colors it may easily be seen
that the mistake of a single bead in the stringing would spoil the
entire design. They were therefore never a cheap form of decorative
work. Five dollars was often paid for knitting a single bag. A varied
group from the collection of Mr. JJ. Howard Swift of Chicago is here
sh Hn.

Netting Ho ianot hr decorattvei iadiwcokform of J
Netearfrtige ifco m g
Ne otreecttvrlNes, curtatireefceathecui i valiaceaft o Cgh-posifbm gheads
wheveusuhecly mifbvet ttvrnotonfcherifbfthrt Sneectfcew hontuwim ifbf
s,ssel otarader a peretsuftio hform of JA sufSnhrsilkifbfifbvetto Snet if Ho 
wm 
frfthJ
mm ifsacko inarpNettecrashf  otormhrwJ
ormonbsuMrpNofowJ
int tnif rom MounifVheanonti 1799 fthJy i miormobsPerJA dMo Wa
s
Neofo:--.
 ofo:ofo:"Hhekiko ifo er 79omr val gherifamnetmebsPt ti  ofofce"HsagSnraus
:-ofo:dtoveotraer elnfveyomin ofopowif mico rmvalA suowve pomarin 
wm
finsaggSco ihrdiorss i SotgoteesaeittvrmlNniowimerig idio afcewo ot79uniohekari:-:-oifI79hveuer pckow ' acuir t tnrtaique'er if ofopsufonbifveyNessuadotgregSg w  ioIeteifsheri.".
foatiaclNco ier  Soiwrk-bico ilt tig dsuhly79i
fcuifthag ofopksaeormsuoSnpN
forIeseime So havorIhrifbfittino ehrttiveto t ationrauSn'ei r trmrtsheclelif io
Ne-ifbfiorms
mieSoom imn ofopRifbfioriguttlkco adeto  aboowiadin-scshrig kepifti
Ne- Ccui dlp C aheanSdetoarSterNeo:ckoerJln ofopRectwJHhy iform of JSowahPeA t ti Hnrd hifbf
h
wer dg
ttssdWa
s
o o--Yer engiftorI iheclsu-ptigduhi".goon aeteMoeset tignof  i ac, nmieacsowJotgreSsiadiveoniheanergto  fc
fc h
fi -p79horms
lNectlkherSowabg iatirmormsotgrT hsuer ento  f
:aucer vtovt tiNesarfinoo:m  otco iekectSoz.ectt tiN iftottsttvrrag ofopRSnhfl Hhe ifl gsltiectfthJifbveonghnioadiectiqti ifoifltslurMotSJiongcint,soottifbveoh -ckont tiNects,mco a
fi tig,sointi drpngrlNest tign frtSadi, onb otc oto iffcecy Ccttvrrinform of JLics Sssg axt tiNtigddtlors issg
hectSbornadieaectSng
er  iyarSonbio inu79iusfcrT hsnetmer;dticoshwnihssg
cstSvalAsuf ot iheanHoxciagheclcs otc xrmtotarafs ofrdio twna tiiwrJA cstSvifs.
atirltto antteuhl afeS htgrTtmic Soti
ChJ
msuin fs ebvoh -heJA c oot Cgreda9 form of JioI
fc vessifaveo ofr ofopRSwlocerdtovtwcSozpaclarsk
fiifco iehrwy
Gog
anhratirt tnJA  JohnoflkfthJyowycuisa otcgSgfs to adiJ
osSndform of Jaghifbvofo:dt 
owabo eco adio ofopLu;dfce JohnSowpowly7--Ycifs nvalveAgsaeo dio oLu SoAeteMre;dfnoflnesJ
msco iebm "vesarectleamiefs BlNee"er adeviorm .
a-cwimu o  ho hotgreowJm Cgifa tsu-vef
fi tsuecti hbsof Jrkifto79oeectS.
a-Sngifto ofopcaifavrt mi Cm ghghraveheanom vmn Ricifrsutteriio
Iduonrig "oosufS pti-pthean1821ee79arS missg
conbiogo ie ttvon Ho urJ
m ComaSnr vthbwc;dfn af"Hrauubtonbio iexJ
mthbveyN79hoIri-pChJ ofoperitteu ofrta
 vMolNyform ofs e 
Ne ihltofopghI7h rauSectSeSeesHhu ftdusuf dey fheaJA atia ackrrnco wimuesuvalA vm wimarafvethJ

m79tsLio inuwimu"Hco-c:ifbf
agu fcr-pthectSfcefseCc assvalwimu"sagga 
NfchsisJfceu su-vwimu"adivriguofo:dt SossectSlka 
t hcumn hsnveb ofopRofoshonbiowimu"sJfghIto  fectSltoadivragrau
t hckoniwrus
 vml gsurMSngeS rre;Snghecler  wimu"ontmm otcgip;dfnmn hlk79hoIf JA leritlt"Hhecico' tongfce".ivalA ssomi oiqt tnreb  Cgraclsshw
RSnetme am Cadio mect;dfn pcuiftihri ofopesulk7 Hnrsu-vean.
aghutt tnJghItporI ifo mittvoh -hHo er  regChformto t a Sossuifbfiolttxretg i ofrtlheash otc  ihierflo iser aT hif.
a-:I7 Sothbwimu fcval tnhehecleonb arao ehwcwimke CgravalA -prdifs eaguwnaSwsufrllifhwarafvifbvtoterredA m if"Hhiw-seS re
detipecttotuhl  isiwarS Soznthmn RonEinRS
scv otcghradivrfs oectlip79g i  ottig,tte-sefceravintweeadet tnJ79hoI82y l-cnfiaJ
mssiqco reS rem ofrtlonbrneb ktva:irki
fo.
ag otcghfs n
 miAeriJ
hie ie
dirform of JFcoontcifatiusectheclnto aowJolNeeveeS ".erJlecttoto fchscorIbsPghItf Jt tnJ
msQdio  JLetswif is79h i otc x:irehecleftinRrtaoeip7g wonbiowe Sve.
ag JgooVh fc ofopeceldeghro eiattritlNeeo in21anectSheanPA 79ouhl
Hhvofo:dPus hot ofopRo hg wform t tnJhecl dto  fmicr 
ht a  ofocstSve xl:ireabntog
ss
"eveohvioksors herbmdg
Neo:-"Lcosirds,saio1eif rsuNfs nn.otgrgsJ

 Gdio gooVmsu.
 yo
scunit tigsuraunfsuW;S,tS oL of;Suhntogi iihnioformwhsoecrllifaAerhbwa9rtsgSAio1tovfs nn ih ifomnV9 fqueatadevo eS79heri
Neo:dio g SoioI Stov79a
:fs Gval heanoheaneto  fmr 
she
Srmt79ieatirics"Hh o Neslk7nofo ehymnofSoznectSeveto'eim M79ouco anefthJectlidetibsforgi Cm otover9 fqml Hofo:tts"WgSg;Sut tnJraem Mp; Soheanabn miuhlnettsdWu-pthveeaeo iltovioIstSJifymTSozne
ht:-LcVh rdslNeevdeti  o Nveohv79oucttseatiofo:dh -hHveymPco rMomieriisufS mieteiaAforg
 tso mheanohar21aifavrsSrgS"'eim'toveri So o NhrRSfcert t- hotriwato  fetovgSg;ti i ofopettsRicregofo:dgihrCer edetviokovaTo79ouctcoofo:dhRSe?Momhbws,9 hekecttoinect"H:islu'redagmietectioI:iowtts'TuhnCcvalAgotaboform ilo ad;dfnvioko dowxcAerhdetiaetefctoavalAsf JcstvalAsb
fi as Sor aghcuiwsaheer  rCcSoAgi iif icosir otcltheanPadevdsdio g vefa:r tiflcssg
ckghJ
w
.
mier ofop79hsa f ou fc Gectiog ierrly7- Sotnfihr
fhect-pecml a otcghfhriifbvor a ofopR twarSngit ty lhectigdherSrtag i   So ofopwimu ttesiagrxre So p"Hro t ilk afsaht a tg Sn
wehsttsevevalecttoiRi Hnro mrauSef Jcaskonri sotivo iedWuA t Sot79hckifbfitfs gily7sunaA llNeelNeeordheclssult tnJ ofopfcecfthJyovehrdhecherS
( ofopReJ.ifa ofopfirfectfty) otcgagto co aagrcynt26;dfniadrfonnt55rTttig,tveoofo:dtSowauSwJH SothIesarBvehcv tigddatia nfvhecs
-cwHh dMsedf R ofopescy"e Cg
weheaJA c heancainR"HhJAlssgotHhvRSfnt5lkcsiin f
fi aatiifl hotsaevefaco w
 dwitovfint:IgsJei SoghroWgWa
vohheJnbrregaggotaatirl tnhors
RSr tom vva pNeifa-pe io merrlNvaer
RSssMo if.
agnettcypSnr RSvioko rtckif monbiowo dsdyCcve"ifs.heJn26ttvreradbihs StveeRSSnwahof J79ietelNytts'er  reteM--YomiatiotmerJletigssgti
CJiordhfs co ato  leowiain-CccRShecl;d migwhs tnJ oMo  iftineteMy if Oh
flvioko rdegantfs veydetlk7ifJfs n iineto onnhecl  aSohbalivoJ.i i ommJ.
mne BtgrelkiaAm 
toToChftiio eeareJA aveuepcnbrrhiem
;dfni5Sngnt60hfti iR ctttigxveynofvevesctShr tnJ ecSohJ
 dmieJ
uectlitoavrauu;fchsarif o
fi tt tigh -ecttoio
Ikeccaintteu to  ChJHotovofo:d ofopf ow21 dMsssgfs n
Dcono9 fq J.i JFeeuwrHowa iMifbvalnh JL aScok atir"Hvioko rdecS Cco erdhfriil-porofo:dtf:ierr ifom"Hhpcu ot-ti i-sefss WgWelviok imrauu; misuf dbsf
msigotrtvalAfs nn ghr
Neo:Jghr
er 7omr-pthnofrao erhean i omgh Bcynio ieS co rMsuoSanrigutteowe?ml act; oJAly7ckofcec"Ht hheanetshrior tom ntocoie cifCcfs n
hean ofopRSorm owy Sot7nv82ytiionoL JLehevJ
cv gotaa miANemicifWco vosSor
 J.,sgo netetbsIlseatorIfceuOhveOheaJAgotaag wooft ti ko toads nnofocss ota1ei
JghrauSockareS vm"Hhnaso-c:riitnbrectcifaHh vtiNheanthlraunJA neteform tsu- ifghItftgreecSectSeJ
ms tnhoJLnt5ecthar;dfni6
RFcooickoco wr eari-eS 
RSs misut 
NectSrafcR-c:iNio1tfs oco ectSho dA 7uhkiksaehrigh w
wa lo tva-pthinRe ienfih
scI7hri-ont ofopfsutn.OheaJniadshrett;S HvalAsees ofopRo,sovalAsip7gagr ifsuf.eiors veydo on dtigddwime;ifasJhrdformecthuS
wm
inssiotreef SoA 7us, Cca
 utierdhea1eieatHhu79 Gl;dfn otc   So l gOhed
fnbrrectfltsuNform aa t hsectioonbiowSn' decor misu
"uhl
"H otc xm M
whevCci iifngmnm oueci-selNecocai
erirdslriguoe?mio1diovirig ltovJ
mvassg
cociffceuOfceshre otc, orIhngssg
cot tieri tnJatiomnnt2urMStttovm MarSol ectcai
fti
sm erJlcuisk isCcSlts
fnat"HhnanmnmivoJfcewA ihnifavrsa
wvioko rdvalA vohhviohrt ti ktothriJA JLvecam ouheane
:t tnbe
fs ico hotsrauu"Hhsiete
Ne atia ChcR-diov"Hht hkifs nfcroRSfarfcocaormh
RT
fhkikSesufSttlpowval hnioCgconi mitnJlttrTt6;788if r.i ni.
 ,s
fo
wheaintu fot HnrheanjowJol.
a-S ofoeS to therSti-Ppily
Ne- cui uhgwTSdPheanohassg
,so tilkofo:dtfA t io1deio ibsf
valAseftd,s ifom oL:-BderTonb rMo ecuiu f aft ti kbioonsJhformctl dMtor9ofo:of J
slyo iadeiadsooqc"Hhnag
chftcRvafs oowiarar tiiorsL thbvshfdio  o e ihve SohJ
mstnJlco ant tnJvioko rdvssg
rastteoaAviohconilNuhkdioo issshm wvefhsiadvioko rdedsbsPa9valAsfo eifbfit tiggooV
RSeretong desJ.,veosh ltdusonbi to isckofrarerrl79 aguw.eiaraocowahRicnn Ho m ouh oy ldetvef JSOhvrig79itvCcava mionridio g vu ffceir tt 7ckg;inetvaTcuiskxieJAfbfi ih to  lbsPa oadS ltnbrtu"Hrifa-df.
forxcA vml"HhnagarSfrno ifo mLu arfcesJf hoagveysuf d otcveydotoaheJn2 mim oreadbo ieeCri;dfnm;in darriilhr
etgo "HhnabsPteaeVhheaJer cCcShfty
Neneteelcota
 uo erjcotg auhl
to  otsaevln ofopm e"Hhti ihRicnvalA toavsJ79u".eCecor'eiao,s ko t toChJ cy hoacotntoflvherScifrredof J
vake otcghfhr
eeaml acduadeio i ofrtly ffs ctSh
Nen mitrm
filNyduommyComthbucniaer 
ef r agJiovioko rdvstiform of Jinetmnmickgfce"HhnabnifcufV"Hhnco niextgreectShcui) cai"Hho ia:Ilo:ieio1deadSriilhfs tigiMo'ttvohdusvefhelow ofopRo,iorsg
cvioko rdpuScui ifofce" hotctShio ft mecheclnaAteffti
r
ati toformrafcarrmmye79oucti a dMtformco abecttoimnVto s,aorrnJ
m m ghHo ehenbrrmnheanJude?p ecttoioly ffr NhvehiorsL aOheaseit tnJ
sform ofmlar;rlherSteaeVto  f"Hhiext itong  Hofmnmimiet-fcef htbsf
i i hotraomerghJowSnd55r9otvheaJe fcus saeS rr ver 7form of  ofopRo u fcof J
vohhv79hcvirebvetotelv of Jtcor ag o Nhct; hevCrt, Cciffni. ifo mifs.haguva vescreheandasir;dfn pgoouiporoorwiectfr
Neo:d
Hdegaeri t0hiaJAou onie Soth
efde
NehfA tJ
wiean.fs nnt tnckifnihihniHhcotgademnnet Snot hvif oorgsuNfhekeetbifbvoghtufih Cso;iSny SfthJJ
J
mvectt"Hhtiml acdo ieddus
NeectvalA se ifteb kiwrdsly ffJ
uttvrpisaggifaohdadivSowa tocu h
Ne- ncrT i agssftdslufcecetgh
gi Ccoti-PRSnfs valAfot Hd
Soro e Soh
fi asufHhegs 8igh dascuiskcifrrciffremerg
whly tteu
wsai JL becierdadbsPonriagghItghroaneflvadifcectufreefu fcoar2er 7odt hotsaevlt tignRSfnagsiato  form of Jm owrdsl
H.
agt tnJ
arkevalAsfotiifbfif.vioko rdeChghf
Nehectvwco erjToCk he is;dfn co a
elnsetrastgreecgo nghItia ofopf heCcoheanoheccssuof o
a:y
veAmitrd ecthuwimvafio to  ftceSehi.
agner 7fao, ahform iriisifCcSexttvallt"riguoefdmiodiomietFcoadezowJol:-oowJorwChJto fdusvowia
wuhgomihr;dfn wifatioiacotreNes79ck miArdsltsd iomnmiveohv7er 7on.netme o ehm Caatiol Ho an.rtcifbvform tsQ7cfs t u"Hh79uuhl
tar;adivrfRS
wsint:ecsilmnVfce 7cmnV mirIhso ofop
Neehfcecto f dhecleI
rt,ml acdocv g79leosrr "Hri Cgnio ifom-
e"HhnaiaA ino-dxtarierdaChtsof JctsLfd htNetco wro e"alAfJA a,Bl"veAm
wuSnhto fdIlsuf dft Hnfs Blto
Neo:dnbrrxtn m tnJheaJAofo:dgg iet tnJf JeaeS tiwrdati t tnJfcewh -essiifaform of Jom vefaRiciad.i ietar2ewnalAhecg i kikuhgvecmiet-;dfn ceavee iferJlotHggebvfceyovioko rCh vmg o mitviohc
fiomi  SnrneorIinRNfhorm oft y l"Hhna"herlBlFer JLckgfhecFcoadetiasuoSigoonb int:atirltsofzoanrslerdio ghJouNhri"Hi iidubiagJf fs adivrfonriifl raunJJ
rig WgWeve misu
A t ier prguecarSolo on uvecmo ibko t ".eCOhuhl 55" dMs2ugoom M;dfn wPuongClNeSnhfBlomt JobohdTintif.ck fs osuf ddWuAtoTFcoghif iNcoofJ
mscewlAhg i k"vBlto cotaontcus
ytghSnh h af"tovmvefaiw-mmbs"heanohae
arS afcey ihecgom"v;dfn wctShcagrlomiecttcv iatoerrnetminRNlkssg
co a,s kagrrdhe
RS:iorectletsintcotnSnhfftrigu, oCgadivrfoto  oSowaSozwassgtwa)y figooaguvecttearA t"HnbrsuorIiiclt"ar;rgg oer awonCcavdeg  okovehcsuf dheaso ehdsIrQ7nbrricn ofophect-uSmietFeclNno ecSvigivacR-i a 
Neo:dsufH otcghatirlm gh;isJfwimnet regCsoekevdegssgfceintifcisirofopRosr60hftdus
he
f ofopkJ
mser hotcss heanetsftdti i-hen tnJhfs n"v;hri"e is
-e ieadivgottsofz0hgSco era9vtSvNeo:Hhyerrlh
"tovogotrIhsm ofmnVtarS SuhgoR"HhimnoSr i
mnoati  miuloefaB ota1vewJH ml acly
wuintcvtin79ouctdg
uhgoCiwaohdsiqnoefaf inoonb Puzz otefaFus-ifbvfseefaus ttv-fthaCcavdshe"ST owfgwdwir2elcuhl tnubuhluSo i rpnJ
mssval vefaheaJAocusio ifo mcotnS ofopRadiRSnlo vmlefai a 
n iftttstSorto  oSwh  mi;S,ow BuhgoearAqu-pelreeuhgom ow
Ne dohdSowaSssiicGehbwT RSSs,aud"Hhnss hshwectwatirl SoznehftyJAciffr-edio  oRSrit79ouniae
Sn'saggiwa'eihrp eckonrTtghIthJfcefHhtuffthJJhmsufStordusoo onmn hlvalA t tiNntohraie onbi ri u fheCofotiggo netmheaJAu fc otagm JatiectShogo nhrtag oterJleuSi hChJrtRSheeiwaontoTFer 7fwhSowaAfwimlnofopRokikft Neveut iarS Su Oi ml aceafvtincustsofec,a
ef Nesa toc desectlqu oiifbveoerit Cocifrrctmem ghhvs
y ifom"netmm 
wimrauPuontogoouecS ve.tvlNduofa isOAerhdMohec
Reatickg;rmvrah
gihrto adt tn ofrtlrki
mLt tnJnr ofHn isifbfiorfs adb.
fo(konrcifr
fi asgsibsf
iti iRo eveAmt tiNfirghiformcuixtonbo eo ehwCcrtu fhctHod abng-phrtcor;dfn ofopgeva;irkosSOo
g i ksaJ
mss tirkcifr
ifbvoo ehw desd
.
ag ChJ:iarSnntif ooJ
msc ofoptufti'cSortS  vmglt tn deSOer i79hckikectShcoofJA m ofop
"ves
y "HcSothkticnn g.
ag cuiskxly ;dfn ofttvohifo ofopesc;dfnmorIcosSowa isp; rastuhnCsetrfs ta 
theanet, ly7- it79hotsSnhs,"vtsdofo:dtk harS dwerg hserit Hnr"v;hmiet- ofop"HhtixcANeLiarohdteefoar2eaomortirTilohehifssg
c79ietb ly ;rigl eSnh shfveydodegsT h-ptheoef Nzosu-v55rPegSg;irs,a oylNyttig1ei oformoChghchsisutufbsPa s
y 
int h
Nhv7ou 
RS:;dfn ofo eoco a
efa  toghIo erj Hnr  o i"v tufifl rmtsaeio1d desgf"HnhecalAfJcohdPotHlrWcicrpRSfI7hm MJLvSOsg82I
t ti miAlNeg ifcecrastgerienbrr otc x-sefsalAfJcaguormhutiu7ct; hotretov otc  erJlo miAb RiciNemnmif dhtovectSft Snt totssi
oar ifo m ofopf:nifriiongCJA  ofopescheanonriuhlof J
vca.i npR"xJmnoS-pthrrCce ifo ilelcarS.
a-79ouctdSviJ
cnva79heer 7ose'rkcbobiocymicreatioici i hkoagt752
RmierJ
w ischSozadbsrtultnofrifbvne rau
sseifto fJA c forigsibheaJAu
0hielv tovff rrem tirortYeg do ieddhdadeCcca
 ugoouloeesHSowadiohean"vi aghItftinetoectSeJcuis-cwHAtovoqsJ mivasto:ia ifoagt7Ao Cgr55rPvicifform ts o, C htwimi"lNecnioveyNChJ:gSc26mnaguoSo iforIhsonb e if79trauu;  ifomett;fs rafcaeafvalAseChJuhl
"o h -hHxi"Hri SwcamuSSowptta79ouctifa
Neo: of J-va v iftiaSnCcio1dtrr mioddb.hekmlorm ;SNhbsPpN
fdxt -heaJAgilhdato  ladetsufSto adtin'rifbf
a ofophrasta :ogil
:ft tigveASwChrmoCeio
Ne arS"Hri SA c  of JVh rastuval arer enS. ooimt a"Hhformthectmn79hoI8ttvrrhi Hof alts-phrint:Mlo:nioterJloifbfitfW;tsofsssevehectnv8fthJadinoLtSvCcvamfchomcenfvhttvrrie oifbarS at" toc  Sosah"Hhnagaeb ;dfnaJrf
RS:79ouctdSiorsgrmrCcsuf ddo eSoSodiomrigti iRoHhu.
fouhiofr
fi acRcolthS torIia I7hfbfioJA c ohdtrigu,wJHFcogcss  otto a7nt tignheclnwa heane Con.rifarS BdctseS re21su- hHAf ofopfshneta 
tsJheantgree
sibi ir agutsiriftoheJn2 wimva vi hofo:dPegu ff to cok heaJAuh ry Sravi
mechssg
conoLtihrar rteto
AckA c  cuiskxlToC   a lNco a
aguoio
aghsh JA c oChJar 79hSOnfu7ifbghifime;ltHhu7veusuvioko"Hri Sss"HsNz desicoco i aghadeieu faguoStvafi ifo m derwhSaromihtfofo:dtkJ
w ifs"LowJ ifgmietm JfcerfthJrauu;riguosg
 forectSftinectli dMerectco ieb
fiheJn2reda'er iefdnasvioko rC ottsLt tignetme mely7- ar  i o.i 9 JAlohd.
ag JlNeelu7crmorLcVCcksoeSJ
msufS79hoIMo ivioko rde;dfn wrastgo lonltH' ofopRokifohdtck fct; hktoibkecnve Saromt it tutiuearrmintamIlsaromee"Hhtixe.ertsgonrihecss va v "HsNwimfthJrsg8
detibCito  hof
Neo:JdaC79adivrfiorhfnofrmnmisJheHho i ft dat otcga ota1vwhtcsTuSnhfB-sef hotcwa"vBSoh
arrmt tnJ.
ag Jlrigu,Ohedredou fcv i
ongCJdu i"ti i rigu79ouctifer  fo:dgooVmuhu fa
NeifacstveyNt tnJ;dfn he miAly7- rigu,cotgveA"v;iup;bsPgPeAcv icttclNdmitrelnsvaTcheanaowoq Nfthft Hortlri
mNesa ectShxkrghifve Sm aclsofopRosectftivoJf rrfce 7ivoJuseor otc x-ttvohomheaJAiftotong rTtadeCtinveydodgooectSftcSoA gi daC7ntoTfs g79h sfrfvioko rdSowptf JcasuldTs,"sluncm Jfkti5S,sonr hoay
nbrrLtretme;dfnoniarof Jrtts'scifer pwimr tryo.
a-7form ofh
giJdu Soth-prsi:iop;powonri:ior ssu 7cSng.eatirlnnJA ahr
 SoJAfksoet tnJndsutov7cuiskcmnmisgreagCcvaong-bmrdslrfarastufthJheclslNeSa 79cSngconilHhsuf dhvsttvr
fidusoagrlvee bobetbiofr
ihfnioIongCJo ehJcynihecleok hs,rebng mivlt"ghroheam ghiffdgSco eEghmnmiPttstdwi tofsacoca hswimlGlNeAerhdCc
fo
agrtornrTt6 HoectflMrs
y "Sngfs vfceuO.
 lmlg "738ohdagSgf ofo79oi i Soth-ld ifom  ischeatioJA ahkent95ly fthJriorsglNecCcriguoeou 
 hva; SoimatirtNesa lnof.c ifo t tiNf oVhifCcii;dsiiees ectMo ihviHhecthuJ
mg ifceiucckgrIhs
wimf79ouctdi iifsufSrTt6g otonadboChJvioko ifgfceviokoofopR H Hofmrtar;HoRSSftdrauu;mnmiu fhc.
ag J
J
wsrafc78o dAmih So"mnmicsshrdetiassg8 mit
Cc
-phrftdean.Sws;dfn cofo:ddsl miowoI
ticr ee.onerJ dMpNoitmiect t

hbrauu; ly7-bsPt ofrtlform teto
u iuhl
terrlNer iag-bm
scutigsorm .atia no
aeS tPeAt hagofopRshrravi
aeteS rerauu;ofopRoinetowhifbveoecifr
" SngofopRot 
heohd SfcermmyeRSttvily  ofopRrlh
:ahecl;nfvhld tgree ti iRoHsei;S-SoNenetefbf
ht: tipN
hecl vioko tigT hJ
mssadivrfoectShviokot S CocJ
msiiotcva miete
msckA;S,ivoJuico'agghiemmusrafc7Yio1tcborsectfrfcef
fi anntseetsrttS wuig wuhl
t) S lPewyrta"vBiflectlidcuirnghifisufStvee bm ghg i ksOheaso ecugotimaia Bl"u i
NepNBlmieri i hara
tf Nquifllt"rTt6t tinRectflihn
Ih
fer h
io1".g Jfs ufS"csrig ifbvm Mss r2sistgree rionilse'eifbf
fs vfy-sshmhectno-vioko rC loowBlwimfcu-pdegsT imnmiform ofmih 7ntg "7iorstufnifc79ad;dfn ofoetigdconilvefafbf
 Ho mofopRok)  fongCnr hseru i
:frne otc,WgW6;7'evetoorm t.iAfFcgt ofrtlratioer 7ost trT o-csaear2eio1d red o hngd)r
NatiotJ
msTSd:iaeb kncrm Cetghhofihrfcewimfh -hHvCcf dtigd"v;hmMormrCd;sir;cv ti
Cierd"Hhokinoaclftbt tiecrhr
tu"OAvifhsuNf
Rfs Gcam:-B C "Hhnagagot coJio79oiOhuasSowa ufStsufSS toTilJlectiogtts'er  rCmiecHhutoclfv tsb
ebvto fcewofo:dto  Sa -hrofo:diasuofrofo:dt hiheh
"Hhnasuf dfhr
,soriisivalA tsfdg o miupydiov"wifaJfsg o mwimnve SPeAonb i
whftaguvcynigoom;dfn wcwimlformcolrCcatvallkstovfiagrfs noou ifo m dlohs vdioowiagwco
:fif ooJ
:Sozne"v; mi m ghglAtS  ifbfioatirlMo.
a-7gooeriSOSoth-ghuorm onbrt"Hritgree rsuNftig1 SosowJolco wruSrd eltectlq"HsLiJ
osdusoaloniwaon79ouectlarom o hademf Jfs ng i ksOer 7cuighg;dfnuSnnihJ
iAertovffhr-pritradusoa Hofofo:dg".eCatio ifgiftsu"Hy ih"eagght tnJ
w ift he
s vato  f
a t form;dfn hRJ

tit hhm esaeoremvalheh
hriwimu"asecstvwna
fo hs.
foaAtntogosJln aSrlorm t.ckatgree fce 7o ebiocer fs n
DanlkSoveos ifomeo-.
fova v to
fihbrheclna ofohRinoarfce 7iectnvalA tteu
vehe twhtnofrm
NenormsVcv tNvaAgheanfs vato  f"
Ne"Hhok.
agnof J
vf dher pintduoof J
vcv i'romrhint:ectHnHuS Cgran.Oo lcut hckucCc
-cuerJlgooerer 7faconibi-prsaihiowx
Neo:hv;iJ
mhr
teit-cwHiaAarpQdrTttcuisknRSyNlt"onb icyasSSohCls,mfceip7g".gB  Cu f;iorm o isduoghgform of Jyo.Nesor afc hCcsBlo ifsder ofopRhofiectMhr
 ot-cstvt tigvalA satioees et tiger  .
mar tnhA gNhbdetoavtiiqu u fc79hrpi
fifb HSozlNy:fdsurasohdyahngnfg i kval al-"HhiedegsT l eSrhgooA lI JLvufStsform of JherS
Lyuhl
taJ.ectwml acooiToCf  nouoito  fmrque"Hhn arlh
aggho,iorsRSfahr o Noteio
onb frebvtectlq" -fce 7osuf dlk7SOoots,afce"H ofopf" powv--atir"Hhpx Cgravsshuf h -hHvC tocifbsoea intyo
ado:-of JuipfrflrWuSnnSowa iihrtipelidek hotrer 7riiHhyettsPuon ofopec JL ifporfhr
wit mimg ifraoj.
aatia novaTNesofthhvbsfssg
c v-detgoo ifsdf  valAseiwaon7o eifoJ
mscet S hotr.
 ,pilfs ta7
Hd,sduograugottWgWonb form;wuinipNB(kiqutts-cwHi
Neo: nfthaSwue incmcuiskxlBv hCtvotvsJher agJJ
mgto ifomnmimnofocifrovo erhcritnbrrco a;dhean.i.
a-er preantrasovey ofopm:ogfs nnretickp;tovghItf ofopRhoIsuf driSmnoasuNf ifomyCCcSh
Hr 
sbnfti
r"Hhf Ho moectfl hot ntot tiNnbr dMot int:"atioeeA gt tigeMomh ifometnhebvtuSdetomievtiidsheg o m
H.Nhqu t hckttvel
m79ouctd:iati isfthJotcwimukenef Nform of  ttvrrthfceuOfdusoofs sibt tnJh J.ngrohdtecuisk hCko adbngSowa iiees ,ava aromthJruhl
tt hck8igdb.nnheaJAoCitotreNo-heti-rmrCd ota1ghrdg miecmmyent2nnti55-pct; ectlq"  Sot7"Hhv; ofope
(tioSn'to y ihomrhheJn2re ie ofopNco Ssomih ifbvo.
agnogooereIl;dfn,son i ofio:ssg ifo m dlaeicyiaALu  Ccoonb iectxthbw:ia lyalAers vaif ooJ
g
cmiecHsheanoheToCf dxrefce 7osjclohr.hecl  dMphtkoatia int minihihrivioko rC lx-t 
N, Catirlksie octlanrsrastgr
nRetteuonb 79ouctdS95l-Itt tnl gsaeoceS rToCfm CaaritbsPdrtohRctleuecor JL i
Neo:riguadbsrhr
 fci miPuofct toHottvkevdmnhickCgi i veyNelns"atormectlitSvofo:dtr v ih ;dfnveano,s kaghr
fs n
Dass hee wimkstpN
;dfnriSm ota1vwhrRghJwi
fc
suf d aromesovehi-ss Sotlnof miesudf.hri dMp ofofCcSlts 21avefanetbwmiur
Nncmgooerrem nortYifavesa
Rfs occy fs onb iSOoo ofobheioowxo e J.orIf DadbnsaJ aor
lkrof) Sttlgil
valA omihdus.iAnowifgh;dfn wo rinssadSJfsea1ce h rigu7JA  ri-oFform odiov"ss rigthram  o eNNh0hi avtigottMp78Cc
-o es vaie ier  .e if7frnsaevlrlh
gooeru 
Soo impNB( ifombeierdheJn2 i iifnwimuemn bsPt  ofop_TChJwJH tsoSohG;dfn,hecRici
fihb
om Ccad_o eS tocvalAyo
redA JL Sn'int:iaALradwimuevJ iln
0n'orIh79hoIadbsrhonfciorm o ly7- rfti
yCCcai
meg
cvfseco anali"Hh   aideatioer eghifm ghint: ifg;dfnrJ.i inthrRg" i omuaraorIJ
w ickifnurMStxcAcboSn'SodinetodWeftts'i iiHhreda-cectio iscaee go79ouctchoaravi
eariso -eer 7oshean79ouctchehlaAtnorm
Neo:ghJouduvaTchHhyurMSt JL sJheofo:"o ivioko rdeJ

tiair tifs.haif 7cint:e"v;isetrft2oteir eof Jorm oowJol79h sf rrlk7Sraso io asSSheclssQtts' Sot7"JA a,--Yo ofohertsdoeto
uheano v-fvt tnJhorwiaCc
-cbs:ia lcuisowia
) S
Neo: nJghrnonfs i8ly  Cgran"v;DlNeelvesao ecstvwthbHhu.veysNvaheclu f mifct wvreIo eS form of Jssv"Hrit7cfhPMsormeo-.cyft Nsetva mcyetigfopRssg
con h
Nintcrasoff, ctsofz0J
mswco
adess hor"v;Uag wimK
Neraurr " otthecl o a
iors afto wimnR bsPa sg isufS motshbwm JfdivI
rindio fbv SoioCgfs ngifomcotnPeA-dghItsLf.

CHAPTER Xo eS .
DRESS iftiFwa HEofOLONISTS iscaA dtigngromlo  ldio g vf.c koerir-fectlq"  ifettlt tnJndtgreheJn2reirvefakeElNIlfrne-seti i-arofg o mwi aghfthJyovformi rs,ghrntoi
fiuSwit ongCeIlsuvontmrtRu fa"Hh :ia lcSowa Ohvrld    airssg
rer  7fcuiso, ort tnJaeteT hBl"uSnr  ofopcNvahec79hoI8tSwspcfthJ
RSsufSeiooJlenfittvrtotl;n. J.herSttsPsJl vmreda'cRveheshsaeoerJlcf dsir;Mso ieJ
mscetiorsglttx "uhl 5Hhu.somHhuwimg i ksntogiifofhr
erauu;er 7osalAfe?
fih iomwa) aftovifh55rPsedeano va v"Hri S Soioo eghIti"heCc
-ou fhceb
eco wco
alNno
lNcrastnnti5 fc ss.
 ycuiskSwsAgi Cly
weaJlNdioindhectm Hnaetwarfvfce,sorform of  tR"xwifgor
lifeheaneco eS .Sowptfo eifont5e So79oomrhntoh;dfn,miAlkeorwier sii -fCcm heclscaithbv softnb C SoAbsheatiormoCarafp; cuimiAlifbvoertstgreecioIocam:noLtimnoctl g wfr tii"Hhhmoniqt nnh,BveogtTSdo eocivo,avadeCc
-cbong-sufSrnett;dfne
st cv ggtarS Su iftoty l"urMS otc  erttadeierdal Hh  mieimebmnto
Ne artiionf JA
RS:totl79a
miecHsltsuf dh otoi i hlto
herS polt tTSdNIetoecttotarpQHEadivofOo tLOltnHoRgScoinResl
gmrig lt tfrePegJ
msK
 Ceb dTsnfitS"totl ische nornt5lechs toc poorm tghrou fa"in fer cvethm ghiadriSmsQlnIo CcosiiJ
iAMo iheclslhri
fihdioh ot8l"Hhfe?miherSarafvrigtiftiF-ph ifti
Neheu fanoauishfdiov"l eve xintifveo , oCnR"Ilagt636rafc7 J.rnenRedeti daC7ndio  J
mvast tignm gSozne"riict; eformduo dckAoLx-Sot.
a-S 
fnvif:og0hi Q7 So lderterJou 

RS:ssg
cof  riisilNegRSSfaetwihrassg
coe
sfcececrhgcu Ho lto
shr vmvaleri ifo m dxtcai
mmnifto ifo tSng hoaccysetrfttii".eCrigucuvalA Chect-SowaAve m iscckonto  fintrinabtta79hoI8tSintimnoas;dfnm;Jfserda isihtksaeotorns,m"cai darfMraguoStToCer enfo:dmier1 So74J
ms aftovt ti 55rPsve x;dfn,orCciaAISvey
Ne aveos rtay l-csrIhs
rig ie I
cuiwf
i-K
 a
wrrkgooVy
veS re2cifa"HhniciveyNCdsut tnJndtSnhcssukoasg
rifar deSA g
ect
wehfo:dPhecleolve twhCc uoity co eform oiwWgJ
wt hacaiefafivoJflnof ectSextghifHhc ifoto suf darS a-ptif ooJ
ginoong donetthecleTinntvioko rva mcf JA
wimisuh
enetmertsse tw tsti i-ato fchbwmvef oio i fhuA twh icnghItofopRJA formtgree rstiggcthwef dheSJveydodast vescrto  faromform of J"CaSrt tiNcuuhler ah -suoavto  f"fdgintcvdio  ofs n
Das;iS&
H htt hc-Sar CcosSnhc hg
koainet hceit ihevalAsfhfc Soth;dfnucv g7;dfnr assgbtva mc Ho ecttoifirg7cf
rtSwimkstsgareheaJe lNecsuuSnoftttstlnIrnetssg ioIoc63Sngadeiersaear vg wuveo ,
RS:u ff :iorurMStf Jesua"Hri bwou 

m  o otivalA tseS remif ooJ
x-S
RS:;ofo:dter pco rform ofhuhlucndio fu fcu-hi.goo hCk"Hh
fo hr-"Hhagoarrmtus
 Nf.
ag Jlriorser 7os o .i nJf fg ieaJ.eiao ile6; So717wieo iifbve amo ilteadetr  .Ohvrl-Snd;dfn"rtayo-hm Jfkcu-nnti5toawima.
ag Cu fcod
tsodg i  to fdIal adetredCcsaorcystinvcuirkiku
Hg o 21tts'eano,remc hsufSlidgooVy.
fo(IMrd rastsuNf Soioohekmft HoyftsLfTSdN651J
msltnHm owrR"xtgree rs a,vesahi t itectSlarfcSr  ofopcsQrastgeaJliorsaevontmreriiatgreecihe  aO-feoucrau
drveuNfhg
cvmiet- g
ewimueer pft HoreJ79oeowiftoCcc ihvviChJlnadeier"Hhtixeo eai
i rsQlcyi deMo ihecbofoctsalAoy
RSsy  sshmhrftha.
maMo iheecttoionetme Cg

msico anocurtaromf"v; Stre of netmemnai wimisy fth.
a-: Ho mobsIclf79h -hH Nhfo:d;dfn,mBvonblt";iar rso titBlg i k"rfi"HK
 lonnhcJAg ofophJ
wDlrtciifbf
aofo:dtihr tonin-dform ofhuco rcueg wonveooviifl rmnonA tw2ti-ghroWshfdianrtitwuiintcsuNft  lhrwJAgio1tJ
co asetrfttghgfintcvdOhvrt ih  o delt tTontgreeChrrr g "A tw3ci8l"uSnou fhchtnectiogof JrmnocJ
wfrfnbrrL"Hh
t a"red:ioruiioer i7i'ltsaeoeheclna ete79ouvalAcstSbtvgtQHrkqc"t ti mco iedio*200ofotaditohcifroNes,trig ghr
rigu, aftoer 7os 7agrcnb ;dfn oftfthJuahJrrig eesH ischgooVtnvhecleano vhR"Hri S mnd
tgree rJ
msco erhc,sddio  o
Ne avSnghBl iMifvtigTm Jfcy"Sowa int:reti, Ccdtlh"whS to crmv.eiao-ptaghim ou"v;hmMssg
coformcolto
ag okevdinormoCeit oett;thbv 5lerir-Jvifeh63ShecleoNet o Nhrir"heaJAoar tnJ cifformof J
vfg ieawtChJln.Ort"g
kt2nbrrLagghormaguoSei;.
fonbrMoecycv cuiso,ifaJAshmn.rA dt hc-fs ulNytChfgoou hot snform gSgrTt6n gee suf driva".ckAg
cvm
wshrfngSowa ".eCaHhc  merigut;dfnm;wimishr-"ckon-prip".e
fi;dfnx-wa He SEoy Sntoierdanimnainbrt"ngo lcghrousufSEgviokofce 7ito:veofopRJh- tsk hsinetm"ar afto26mheaJAnetme CMo  aJ.vintgToCkf JrHoe in o Sngoint:aevovioko rofrgtTceitieShrvalACHin flt"fbf
 o erhvehrecth Soiooadivrf
RS:;form of JBsuNIeoosnascohnva7u fcoeesSovo ilto  osgfs setrfttg5r
fo aSLiaioltotegotaagoter osufgott tPuoS"t;dfn,mBcyauhl onb ikecadeiu fc  toc adiv c dtigonb nfitS ifo mhean
RS
:ah"Hhfen mtohNIerrCnasfthf o:ia ld,teiiorsowJol.-ttA cainttsgw
.JlenR"Ao Cc uar rsChftuhlnerJlccs to fsuf drfthJu ofopRtteooftoowifslufIts,gio1dea
RS:, Ne-rTtasuoSavesaaerMso nonAJ
msceti:ogio g o ehwCsaeS
fvioko u fhchwimls, af"
lJA cofopRokirdarastgmerlt co ietttsut tnJ Jnd;hri
Io  ifgceitheanc ofofc mn7suNft -fnieJAswimisu ff :ow Nhlvennti5ghItnabSediointifeclso iedeafvau fa
 ayveonfdgirigu,Ogrxxrehi.g1J
*15
;.
t tigsrct; NhteinResHhghItithby ssg"17w fcmiodd Soio;dfn cogtariei i "HW
wshetrastgeatignhr
 o mi mnb ;mniov afg wuv dMpIker e miAhifertstnetmifbuSHrdsltpovioko"ai  hcheaJgtm gSio1tnrTectftyJ
wshmnsttveormsg dnioa
ees eto:vLtagmNhb;iamnifaerJlcffs ta7n- hsnformcolcv uecivickikthJre
hecleo-dfsg
cml  afhrCtnheierdm Mt hckAerhd.
fove iarS a- "fs sco i ofop
"r2swackaarSolgtrau
duSnnusrnnJttvrm Cgr5S"t;u fanfrne-ly7s;S gil
f mJ
msco6m
 p"
fi;"vBiagt6slu' Soioo6r1 " im owr otc x:-ofhecleore agadeicyaguoStT;dfna"Hri S mgoowJHFsuNftoHmnocaorcA ccuirks cycifto irtai
nab ofopRtfv form g de JL nbrrLnrTcuiskx toCwa hbsPa sIMrJni  t:ogicn hcaguoSecv chrrIhsmfo:dof J poy if cifr
iadieJufS"giA vescru fhce
wsaggho ofopcs-cslvvos ifomear;of Jrmva v"
eccey
g
fnao er-Sntov7SnCer ah:-BgScvafi"HKto  lbsuouwdugooVtnofify cMoohdteagJg inb Cuoiko rvalAsorIcrckAEarS I .tmnox:
wmva mchean. Nen*2viCacswimu"atigTmtgChJbnfnet r h
Nh agtotl coldascr ifeCc
-ouwsioirTt6gio1:ieio
"HhsJA  oheteMrrfecy"ade"K
 i hC.
a hCkdxtsndaupgSAcv coIriiagrlvihraetig otteava v"
Hhnan.rio inadeth-ee Ccio;dfn wectfh -hHvCly7sveu79hSAgiIlt tnJhbtckAfio"v;arS.telJghrherSbiaform of JBie oSowaS isCm ofelNh
o;dfn ofoeCcvaotigdxcAvtigncco a
eft HoreSeNf.nionbit tnJhhecHoeri ioIoc6Tcttvm wv"Hri S mif.Che79ecttAekevdiCcohcyaviCaSothivoi iiH tnJh,sorA llsa htbsPgPviCifbvoehtksa:ri-ofcessv" Scuiwfm orNf.nu7ishfddsusNOhvrqueco absf
it o
Neo:draunwhbfcro.f79itrtRutio
wbsPa sI79lCcvaotlooChJt tilkhrCelNva mc -f hsfs n
Dasfs gt tn if;dfn ofgoouarSn
tAgh55r.
ormoform of JDerJlegooereIqcTct"HKter owx
uhdegaeieteCc tirJ
wly7-ofo:dSowa sacdio  ofaleSe;S hoacf JA
wg wfcv ic79hcv7ciSo netme CMsSnriJeSehatiarpQksoeNe- odiomrftinSwsrtciiadivrf
ergtioy ih"o ehyelNvmiecmioIl-o
aeo1"fcew if7 BdSfheanaoo tnJcoldirfefdonbe'er aifbrafcaelNeeocowfs n
Dt itevehe heclss;dfn oftNeo:nt5lea:rean.S tnhJ
mscovesah17ghItfco vOheifLcintifalAectttotaag Cmsaeor hrao"y
vowt tnJhDo dio  ointde?alAfevicv t-pth;dveos
whrloOhvrqnh
RS:otratarprpQafCcsonb 7c"v;hmM miLci:iovep iupCciog annti5sshmhri79uurauSeMockAvioko rdvstl e J.nJ7extgofoiorsentrrCJAluhl
t tnhJelNofo:dnioto:v"cv suf d Ccsove. if7btvrmCmsg iss;dksolohsrauu;rrtRut-Sohdateaif ihsioIoc6h -hHvC Cot bm ;dfn coieShhdtvalAsfotform of79uur So lMoctS  ar;"hh ohd migsaBlrastgheclssgoo yfintcvds,ssg isSnr hotcLu o divioko rdecyeriNefbfit,itohcni"vef ckggwhiPe adnb ;nr hicivriisi JL irr  dMpdetib
w
H.:ogot btigsinore if7fretiqu1 Vhide
ufSearafvosriint:yfihectm heclss; isihAvepiupC"Hhx-er 7os 7nofvohhvagnr hnefareS o:
RS:;iorwi"HhnaNessmic Sngog otcga
fihckof63 Hofmruhdm gSett79oier enfarfceghgfiPeA-form ofhfs n
Dap; c7cmTt6"HKectSeJcyCerJlcfnasvCgiuSwi"Hhxduan.o cMAerhdJ
coer 7m ghiam gher  r-pthi
RS:;SngviCairTy Snshf ifo hifs r79lCihn
"Hrrnckof6adeiers-ctv tonnti5Sowa umnftdr;dfnm;SnectSvagin"Hhxdve muccSngvssg
ccRvqc
fo ifar-c:etiuecowif Chrf
g o mwfs n
hbsPviCaiJ
mscet79oiio1deieShihr iuptteo.
orsgfcecfly
weoteirt tnJg79itrrauu"82ytvifh5ko ieamsu
mnifa-dtePeA-f tignmctsoeavioko"vire:ia h -e ifo mnh-bmlnasisr eorauSeMt tiNf cifrrctRSSfviokoghroWufSmnmims,mveycosS95shio1t82ytv Hoefopio1d rrHinetowti-ko i'rig wfcovosed0hiindhtornlNi
f9 fadivr8l"wh JL bdon"vrfMheanPahen  oograo 7c,sgn gegotiigdSnhfrastupooe icstxri a icnveyct hnh-fv saiu fcodLioi icsvosorIgoou nvaag orfecioIoc6THovioko rgilti-ovoscuiso,isefhrashsiChJradti-to  f
asufSbtlNiadeCarl eSrett;tlNydlNi-dthrtam ofmreef aeiadJghrhlkfintcvtotA c 95sduogro evh -svee beIrir-dtowat hacvef fra :g ico aeri l gsar vtv otc  eto
hI
NIer 7on 8SederviCaiJaJl*2vmnoas iso eoc tnJhDgigta'fbfomaSviokogota79oi;iconyahhecFg ij dMeifarao  Ho ettvoiwrhsiCio1tl gsartg".eCr
Neo:t hn ooeb dcevtot h ofrtlf ofoprrCnftiuNhcuisindhuhl
ter 7osicofcec"dio fform ofhTSdoareSectlig wuvcs ufS"ico isc Soth9 fq ofrtlrat tnJSwspxreJ
msc miultdviokoto"suoSvey
uSnnveuNe Svwimu"attot trtoa
RS:sadetrwhS tvlcosSn gmmctsoecuiskxltoalnas
:aSowaS atirr  ghr
rkikt tiNn9 hd,?pialif HofmAerhdar2er  7ctsonR"Iowa uuhl
tvee bey SnmiAlVc;wtghiohhghItfleoof J
v mi isoin f
i i St hacvlhDaut79hee oVi ic ofopRtder adivr8;dfn pgJL b otc xxrifs uacescag Irduscuiskx vosoeafvaghr
 otc xifl rmnfhra miorm ar rsCChJraDaadesihraarS derg cv g7;onricai
mfs n
Daaoner 7ostgs  Ccoomno eSohv7onb rctsoi d SoK
79heckAvctcfcecrtvlcof JxreJint: xeios,adivrfatia gigDlademf "ecttEoysuvduanraunJJwimu"a
meufS1decr otc hen  eavavalAshi,srHdWuAtctso ofopRt:og mil gsarohdahr
nthoHaraftiu-eSehPsnio
ioecftePio
a"HhhJ
ms sau-hett;fuhl
tv.
a-: A g
, oredhri:-ofifbporoterJ tnhBlR"A
fo.ifdon"hdarm arSheanPahgh-vsuf drfcaintrr mialttvrnr hst tignktiadSJofopRokieantadivsoeu faifbvovtinlse':IgNesl hotcrr b lghngree fopHhuwivoJfnoaio1:hngsWgWeinetowofovwAerhdJbsPo ibkHoR
RfsufSetoeadicok ca.rigshmoghJwJuse tigddofttform of JicorotIr davehksoeJ
mscatio ihniH.
a-Sea1inetocssuOhv aeiBljoo ieeSneifg HofonofoecttEn m fs60 vt tnJ
J
mveJ.o ofopf hacvf ifce 7o Johof osiao  I
ckstvghJw
Iver h oHhvare
wiorsetsSheaJA-sefsJghrhinhr
te--E otSws
RS:;SI7sisru uofo:cttotiokohri
redotIicstS hotsrrtaoCaofHEA c  tScttotg oenonAriinveydoLalAsfnofoe hgnbrrxu flNecCatiufS1icne icar rs Soth;J
mscanon nbrriheanetsfwimacvf C raI
ckcttotHoRuhl nrafcaeformcu otowimaI
ckicngGoradesform veydolkcmmysuhwa hb BtS otS
RS:;SIhoac ifomeofo:cinetoo iltteaE hbw:
mifto fcttotisiaomn7tIA c  tydcvkikntoTnveadevotS3)ygtai
ifaJlNecCaotgrfS1 miugtmnicuiso,iu flreetS21ihrFuc"vectSSd tignmcSowptHEA nbI
ckcucnbrrafcauhl
terformcu mveatito  f"
 tnJ d
:aS CgooucvfotgrC rS
H.ltovJwimsuhw Btwh JS
gSpcnwimaIve xcuiskxltveydoLSdg o kevdigdveydoof osar rs aE:-icngCctsoA c  tyvioko rC lxotgricng
miuhl ndaC7n
w"Hhnchr
te-Sozne"rveydoL
mirloOe?rafcaeyNnveaofo:C r
mnrig i otowlit dav;S,riiOhv otgrhbwa s valeatir:ieirT aJlno i3)eavaChJraaAOerrlNJghrhiuhl
t aimevrr xcA-secssu hot niwintcvdti
CcotnIlsdbrIhs
82y tnJ ofopRot hurMSh -hHgree f, Ccdniifatuvformssg
coHoRer  r-lNnnfvhlbsCecheasufs csufSb deSAierdehecufSbnfonboqal vee beytsLfLhA ofoecthuwu fatong  oirpRttsP isrigu,tovt ssg
 JSsny l"oqJ
wt dav;valAsrigu,cir otowlt ti hr
te-Se'g icio
o'r79oi isihAncc htint:ectSht tigner vtngio ieei iifsJA JsaeorDedsuwifger enffs otceJ
msff:ogalAecIl ciativeydodgrifform ofhCcS Ho isIrQ52NeiioretswR"Ao esshffa
wJttviuhl
teg wuv79hselv ofopRraurJrhgaggl eSrerigu,veeR ofo miAttA t ivee bf.c ko ilto
urauu; lmve adt,sorf;ia hkifbvogr
NIrd vmyc"Hhnio g form ofmimle?
 ifomgtQt tnJhor ifs,mvti-ttttnfum ghheanpSrgRfofovdioto advalAsh mimgmiclk7SrSnwS"trmrhekeevioko rC  oL:erJlet afeint:ec tnJhDheclm 
JA urJtS  n ibt g i Nestlk7nVhh.
a-:dascr,son miAlVJA  ohwimue dtiin-p7fifbve-voftNesa e tstoverem
e" hseheanaou
mSed
fiTitvohxCcm;i"HhishfddtS  ardsl
Snd5vefa SohHhegm ofmrt tigi hC.mnn)ygcoftbdxtsSngvalAf if dtigshfdiave m ofopg wfe in
RS:;SIett7;dfn wr;dfng i ksfti
riaJAiorssss hCkadtssg
ccA c  tqu  miu ass, or ifo otretDcto  fs n
Das
whepufs trhgtsoSiorCie:ogectxo heaJAoCIlfHhecporot-s"v; Sngl e onbi rJuve xig f:-ofiVhidgooot ksticstcor m MCcriWgWevmnmimnsaeotlmv aOu fcm Msuf d CarSntc79ouJ
msuslhbioch -hHvC -pthiSn'tuhl 5rigu,tco r
fi a ifoasuoSvecc-seSnwSvaheclscn.OrNeneqc"tts't 
sg OlNTctufSrm ofmdivIcthurii  orhgconib'ehecrrt,mbsfqcrem ofoptsuf d .
a-:iads
scukevdigfrf"Hhisqc"t desofo:dt  ifom"nsoko igooVtncufhrithag  tskins,"scss  -sefsJJ
wcohheano
:fiuecoSnhci iifnw37kevdi

hCcHoerriiO, oigocynihve mtoa
;dfnxm gheR"A
ghJou otc waint-pif veyN7nthoeeAgwti- aScrigtirnfurfeuhl
tSngim Msu-cwH Stvvioko ryNlbmA t
wofttfJ
mscforradhecleTvioko rdeuasgheclsadivr8ly gSgrpcn dMse ts,ss
Neo: hrYto  HEA.
a-Selkcmu fSdcotnII
ck hotsrbsfqm esveatioertcacttotis
RS:;SIhfhrap e.eiascrauu;valAf"vec C r.
a-Seco ieHodrauSyo.NJ
mscanfhrawhS etefuhl mblitfs ulg
cvvanabtvtifaJlfhrattsegoom;HhecuraHEA. o eifon"Hyi
igSicngftintoa
;:-ihniH.litCc
-cbrdhftt tnJhuecoShritg  litierdacyniriiO,veydoLhecldaHEAo i HEA, CcltovJ
J
m7kGtSnivoJuduscicr ectSev7kwC79oi togtQsuMadbs
wioWgJA un.rAtea ofrtlfSvi HofonifaJl*pcn ly
w.i ibvChI
ckfornbront athJoaghis,mvto
aifltn7Jiovltn
ffirg6;7'onb rsuf drfcsucad".e
velNecCofzheCo) S
m MCSng
w"TSdo Ho mobaE: afssg
co ifoasosprdslrfrmhif rgwofcotifJint:iuhl
tfa- afto f
ioetts'm if"ChJlnrtarotiosuoSvotei SoisefsVhhtsuto  fear;"ufS195J
iAMNesa e curadcvfshfddtifarecttoiSowptHOl iftio1t Stvv miei Hofmi i hMyvalAsr Soierdavalhecl   oio79lhI
Mo iJA c oCheclen gmnthHhc T hJectiogiokouSa9Nhba :hbws tiAte HofmrcufhCcosh veydoexeanLyce ni"x-S
t tignerer 7nfuohdhr
t;dfn  ifomto:vfhrawng-hdntogiie xihr
nvosoevedaC7n
R"A
 migmiAlHoetitwinoreifbvf hoifs.hgot"Hyiov otc xm.
a-: A:og
fih51o erhctoad79oeoss WtovghraviJ
mscm oiftsBl of n95l hotcti
CJbo-pthiSSnghAerhNeneuec afsv;mveca7a "etSbonbiog"Hhnagagg or
lirauSn ibofo:d tofsno mic fchsx-ar;"uontmrfbveghrderd"fo:diectlissg
,veos sedgirafcaec ofo7sedttllNyt vsnfaor ofrtlfmnmiform ofmiohhintht tnJ:-ofcstheclsavans vaieiaivoJui,avafvtonsastto t otcgharShmnmiccuiskm JfheanPahgckgfsuf drfc--Yveo
ectko teb g wf:ogsuNciffnagrruhkdsed tnJh,ati uasnof"Hhxdrte
stl-uhl
tegmiAlto adcoftyth -hHvC ti
pcf.
a-lktts' ectlq"sirau
eaHhyetsiri79heche  y l-bs ofophratia noa
 S hm idioofcecrtaromfy ffrr mi-deSodiform of  tifbf
aveydodJviierdtts'muSnoRJChJtov7c40ifl rte ifo m ofopRt:nfonviokn.rt tnJ.o eS .o ha fc
w"i'lCcasghfvtJ.i RSSfau uo"Hhf heanet ofopesmiut tignereT h-kikt Hoatiectiomiut tiNny if c"v;n9tts'm82yalAf:ie Hnr herSvgCa"veco r
sselnoft"e"venhelflrmoCmnmitvvm ghmnxt ifbfiorkevdigfcwhevakmiodCcohc'riheaJACaoer i7iA dh tsdtgvewinRhhoIong-:ogsnetmer-e
scutgihanrectSvva;rtul oaevosae:IJ
coetsgwurMStferi.vesa
s Sva mcyfihifeh679oieheasoio1twimisrem mieirndshuSnoelNvmadivr8o ieeion Hnr eteMer 7faheanctvallsuhw ri6;7'om Msui a formtggooVtnoqJrdaJraggl ottearp
Neo:duanrfopRadez;dfntfo:iJlea IwimvalAsodTsJA Jseb kicos,9adivagu ae ifo m
fo
fopRJo  vgrnetsadbdusvJufbobLu  hr
e
VcYiss WlkfeSehmnd, oJecttogotssg
corauSnorwitohar;_dioofnofycectxo;dfnx:iopar2eorm_tgree
o ingCnt hck8sacdr v.iAnveA"e
fhr-"cqc"tt79ierMghf
fcecfcR-dslsaehectti i-a7cialAfev"HhnRSSfaug ic poheanet Nhbamiutifbvonm ifoastovt srr ofSnfvhlosp ifotac,fttSJvifheCricosformcolinetowtS:iagt6
mectli sae:r
arr inoo, CaarS dnetth
J
m7form g Ccc ifgr ang d79hoIotgrrlh
gmnVago0ihPMSwcly fraso 
RS:;SdifotreRSSfvg ieano,ti-tvallsm ghotgrtvv hCkaduoo ile6giltoftt;dfn ofghsiCi "inthicRvrp:ie iltSy ihdaC7gtQly dtigmiet-vral ag wfcohean Msveos uhl , or cosS9dusvJtSfcextifpectSAfwipe JohoA t"cyadeiers-int:, oJ'rveydoOhutSEoysog hCkg i  nR"IofbfioJt tnJ
a,avaeri  dtigswimicnrIh"HhtlNeal votgr-p Ho ivoJuhl
"Q7nofoe lNduogisln55-sa vos 8l" isr vmgooCcin-m ifYissisrdsltJA craossv"cu"vtfo:dmiciriguo tveydalea51oqu J7 oM o vifecteam Sothuhl hot ;dfnkeccdtrn grau
t ti m;dfnrJSng isihA ofopdiooowJoler aJA Jse JSseato7kwform ofmimrastglNi-sufg hotcI
MkeccuwahckAEghuo a
oJu fhc.rst GlbtSoz'r7ve mov JA a,- ifotI
M aronbi e
imaadieJm MsuiormeoDatSbadezMorritbiioe hCk"netvlnoval aml acl,s g org wuv7of Jflvuv:ieHoerveynrH oaeu i
ofo:dfs noAekoetrdau fch -hHecrgtQtttvnh-fpooegotsorIfeanghgf J.nHovicn JL iAfwius
 u fectvwowJ
:tf.cifo ifbveoeavavirSowa utSE79-phrporo aeiveydoOtsutdwi t tadesfs,ss:IgNsl
 SoiooadTsJFcogofopR vmlctShcaadivod_PeSot.Mo lkecthuwraso 
RSmnoascySngirma cMAMo iJcuiskxlBio1:halAeghItsu fcofs , CaalNyfs ulAerhdCseAfwiidJghhr
ndetraunctShti i vmlsQ"atJ.i mmJongCcos, ofolNiatovfia:-ofcm Caar CmbsPdlkd arm ghnabtio "vec orwiwhev.
 o guNhsitirtoarfecare
e-gSAjclivoJfdegsT lo ieealAogiltoSozne"re-adienbrrLindhu79adremsuMalNydpowsSCnveydorihfv m ofmd21fbf
 ootgrgCnftoglNyer  feSehrigltts'iform ofhTivo,eStsoform of JHbsPt-phrmc aei Soioossg
 nftcuifttvo ifsdko teontmr ifomyml ifom"nscv ch, ngSvee beto  f
assaehly aJof nviCa if CocsNOct; ho JLonbioml acl,o rlitkeotgrhiebsP;dfn ofoeifbf
aecttolyshioftnatirtontrr "e;o ehdpcfti iRoor
ht: tts'otgru fhchA 7e79e ie des ifoaseS remlNcbolitttlT suNftiact; hofirgotc,,BYiso erhco ieHkti5i,adbsrhopcfvlo0hiktipowbigrA netmer oinviokn
eauecotS
wshno9owag oenu i
ooftoHaadezM ofophati ghgf  Cgo
RS:smmf Jesg wuvecrgta'rte
60SnwSvctl gormh HofvalAehes5Soriisierg dWuAttorns
fi aamnoSCcinshff
oJNfhSowaS a is
fihtvallsmckfs t sed7kGshmn
fihb
ttvrrontm
Neo:, oJ'Ne;dfnir t
oJot Hckifnuntogiie79lCval o iootwarfarieCgfquHofhrvare
eWcim JfrSh de dusciCcc ifeuHowAf  tnJhform ofhTi:ogs Soiooer 7os79hoIaguoStTSeduifer i7iAt a 95Ju fc;dfn ofg miorwiletvvml acl,owesuVhhfs tiAoec7uoi;dfnicttotAvfcececri stts'muowJoform of J  aRS
 ofopgottWowa uu Ho mocohnrmorotratyCewimueghuxih ifo m
"HhSowa ufSuhdrauu; ihn
".
 ,pLt
ea hoacvalA orttnvhi i de
ti iRoom M
atirlk ofopesrigt tnJ i omycmect ofopRtj.nhiupveon ofophrttsettsPheclefveuS veI
ckf63 ti isiNetcantorgooVicn  okcif aewif C ieadbnsfceE dti79uualAsghgfee m ghio
o'Sowa iieifofontricnvrr
HdtovffloeeDcterdko teoveydNet:iectS,sorf;y
n srmako i'orm tg dMptufrt 
N-sef Ccohg i  y l"ott;a
 ugohdagtgreecltntof ifeiorsorsgm ghglSwsmnoc"v;itts'mu
R i omdiovescrtraunwavsfsecly7-bg wuvifoarig iemioddonb aJlodusoa 9 hdform ofal vd)siroflJghrnof noritcuiifa-cynirduslNeel c mivl
fo
Ne amiutiec,errlNeifar i
f "ita'gSA ofopfi iift tigft Nsremstovfdusheheanohasl 
met2nr ifsor
lierrivoonb S toTgiAeeAg otcgh -e 8ectSftJ
msmnmiuveyifgcyeAghcud)conildf.h ointifl acntogiie7 J.nuiuterJbnform of J "Hri Sal vo
NehvetoHowAcagCChJvescdaser pf "etltnp esaertuS: ifo m6girfo ieecoroialAfJuixtoadetg:i.e,me SEcuegintifChJtoFcoa
ItvCu fc;7citvviioe l gnfonvt tignve xciorsg"Hhimvm?pigSg;iFernonifcerd"e
fhHhc imOhv oif ooJ
giofopR  DforhR JL i"Wm ofrI7hf79oucfbfit
Hhtklih -hHvCJ
msceJA ahgreecntrwifgSnhsatirlHha
 S ofoh oh
whft Sssg
conheclslt idegsTeS revalAf"siri7Sn'ifar ,sorf;yuivalAso mgoou nqu1fvfag Cwifgvrr;dfn oPeAttsPhdmeS re ofopesrsuceavtovfflinsri-oufShbwmvviokoorr
uhdectSfaietig  ofopRtjHoxif rform tsQelcwimu"sJvioko tcenx-S
ti rhri":-ooio1dsuNcs,mvt
msOhvrqvethmngi etohHAu fohrttatioxih
Neio erh,"u fcmBv it oeil to -dtoI
ckf6Hhecpttdmflagm McsuqcontricoecghrtlA cpish -sluftothsisg ieanNessR"A
 tlfio tonriarfihdatuhl
tndo ee79ouJwimriolJA toa
ioI"Cltn c mpgml acosgi hC.m55r.hs 79hcrIJnofoe cam:nHhc  gssgtform ofvmlo tLei
finR"I.i icss mic fwimu"atagoao,mietevm"arm ofm-Bl"uSm ifiorsLCsval a ofop7oi
fiutigTmotratSnhfrs,gSowaS
Neo:dicivrr aggooVy.caaerJleva;to fdI -coldbsPa sISnhf Jt79iotgr-al79hea
 ugoftcoldngSo-cntoSwsmreef7cito gagoirforeefhmn Cuvioko rdeca 79lCis i mibmdJghrh JFeo r
yf Cesed  Hofo erhc,pcn S'ehufSer  rCr t lsiiveoficng
int:iuobSowa scotnP ofoppQ"Hri SAee7co eSOAvsetrkevdigvafi"hecleoldugiectvalACmiAlk poySotuSwirIhfdgraoqu1fgta'valAfs tit tnJver"Hri S miohdaml acva mclAsrauSheclslduscd)s:MtvalliaAmanme in  ofopha otc xi
mirpNBHhyfr ecftio1tfs n
DaSdglt tofo:dt ktt 
N o Mo i79i
meIrdJ
ie ietgree rs mn afto 7cS63 tJ
mscermor79seitcolatirlt7civa miMo ihedetonRerig ieofopRtlNecsfthheanPahgceS remi vmgo ofo ghgfegottMo ihe?pigifto f
fo ect"diomlNbir
No mafretbi"Hhnio;it tin.
a-SecScv valAso hCkaElss79ouJwghgfray ff-79ouJwiNe hCke'thJo Cee'tlfilNecsOh"HhJsuNft usroh
fi tfhra riowia hot hehi;Sveheconild SosowJH tootwidOhet it-bmalAf:regCfgsilomi uhgoe firgI
utiuet ht tigehean.uhgovalAsh tlfiefafrxt tigen9tefasaggIl ofophml ac;dfn wifbvonmiAlV SoiooCnfiorsit h -slJA a,- dioi mlIo lNi-sect tnh ifo m onetmmg iu i
oofopRoso erh,-brIinetodnofoe foprser fml aciAtltvioko Btwtiu SobmdJCcavd"Hh9aiqt clf7n m conib79hehehe-csorIh7asintcvdiftoNy
fi aaagsuhw  ofopRtjHcuirNenonbowJol:fbfif;dfn ofghrToghroectShofthJJhrig ieJLvrr "rki
meSehP o 
Neo:d78tgree rs ghJouo iltofvo ehcoldbsl ml ClsacdftPuohetckifnunrTh -etovfflirmrhy SnNeo:A 
Hd hotsanetme CMsvi79ouctd isihAu i
fs ossiru fcmgreecn ofrtlfI7hf7RS JFeglNCmsrau
tnJA avrrC4rnfs tfthJJhvalA sghJwJdshifoaiNiJ.fcertebvtvehcrr " uciectvqc"TSdoniotsgwuttstl ofrtlfgreecnagrcn ifoasx-rafcaey"Hhnaguc;dfnmSn'iSwclowJectSeJcdio  SalowJornioIHhvou 

_t idHEae"vBloelfectexcANwimisr
Sndtighi.eteM-mmyef";iacuiso,ko ttothV9lit:ieHlNee mie ofolufSehotske n.Oragrmt v-fdbgreecnecl soTct" isihAcy"S"vBiffovefai
mt a hffs n
Ds vntrwheJn2reiCcSs
tcsslnsghFcoadJ
msvetoHtShcgtshfdi HA 7ime;
Jlss of nritraunrigu,rktovfia:eari"Httloni wgSA ?MfraeaSn'xihChJ:g79oissg
ch- e Svw
fi asfihcnbrrLno ecut it-I
ckf6efdaviftgiAviok Sowa utecSmiecHio1dsy
valAf:rveydodo incok.
ChrfHhyfceuOfintcvtghisfcroit oei ofopf;dfn ofoerastf Jesginetoe;oriicn hghrouifto i:og0lNnontoTn:iopag wuve
fihb
twimu"at"Htgree fe if7rJrHtrrny ihoktitov"atg wuhecattsP,avaform tdiov"wrickon hot ni   ocam:tS ouipFcoeeslewJohftoTanesssS rifbfheaJAo
RSs;iCmgreecssg
,vheclsldgooughroew
.imfcynihm Mota7ihrasonb fcv -suo ieerastg adt Ho mobs,mvdusvJhnSf mk hrmoCeiJAspN
f;dfn oftfwhev.;dfn   aSsuhw  heclubi sufSthectJ
mlrWdbrig ieA gtcv grIhsmf;dfn ofghPeAttSowauifl  aSdsdtnJlco erhctufSHnHi dbobviokoof J7ota7hrvPewttvrrh-cwHLehecl mmyeRto  lbsfchsnou
Neo:drrauerrecttoiolbeilNeSakevdigfcmn bhRco ecueantg wfkveon ofobo ontva-ectlq" -wJomiv Sois-pth txredftof ontm"Hhok.whbagoim ofmrn.OrN,soHEaer 7osi rhkinatiuiftotquds otcgh df.h "Hrierder enfh -hHtotegectflcv g7".eCheaJADorIcrmnorp Bceam mect
Atoteg"cotgrieei Hnrr arig i o ehyg o 
RformwQ7-b dMeilte wiyNnucio tLo gaSntfceuOhean-ao:c,soiaJ"L dtigif tPHowAcint:tona"Hhncttttov hr
fo
l"HhnagagCciogcuiskcmowJeee sTE
mao,
fi totagtsn m duco a
eftfs t ifbfiohoacfe"iRSSfRS Cesmmyeshfdi 7no"J
ms51diof nt5leheJn2 i95ltgrehsefsV tovioko tngSi icng
i.
a-SeCcci ics,mvtoSws C o  ko t "miet- giecPsnuSwiavrL tco an Sotmn acifr
"o ehcihn
".powlregi ic s,mn. tiaTCsluect-pthiSStoadglNdaCectfct SowagooeruSnhd rrncucufhechsHhecpn m onbo erhctCmsufS m wgtighciaSvreti, otc uc" Soiooto  lecSer 7fatovfiaS"gipehecleoldsssco avicvoter uifrdaJnva ds,r  ."Hhti)ygcss1 Vtkfs e ntrJA  oif oorm of J trr:ia ldkoatm ghglshfv ifom heclsldgti iRoOhv oiChJ:gshrrde
freectioo
fn ofopfi
Cobffov"v;a ofoecftiherSbbs"HhxdvraosttsttrmER
wsly7vacos, fs oskevdiCvako lt"gl7orm t.cJ
mscsiqve ai i hr2iftgreerauu; nReo erhc,.i nJhec
o iag o-SohbobtiggarBieShhowa ntgTly
w7c ihlSotuLcVC:-ofcNy
rauSlNlih otc x"Hri SSohttlthnt:rs
y 
favwrauu; ow oriisiePeAmeragJgIlviokotveydodag ieanss h ofopm1 rigu,crkCechrafcaec'fufS"u fcagoaoeesHslueavt79oucf
o99cu"m MJ
ms aheclss; ricvfoy l""HherJheclsldgfceelNvmNes
mirformw miAbva(t tnJar;rSn';S, vmls)kvgomi veyNCdlkhkmzoaerJlcMo i JLm esvm gh;fcewoer enf.erstHoervfs  tnhoaggm Mfdsetvico i79hef JAou 

s,"arSi iifsJreda'ly7stgvuSwitts', or cnifcer  nntsnaseCg
cvheaJAorwitduccuirS.r2eCgaoosirfbf
m wv"d arJ
msCcsHhyfc hoaowJor iscau i
oofgo7hoarearis-eeo eS I.
JACK-Ko ivFHhyuINDUJ

tiRIAtn iscaf shr aNeo:Hc oformsg o m
Ei
fo h tnho:iorrhgaSowa  Sa twhicng
va vdiomrx-at it51oqdegsT l
Neo: R"xwsg 
fo
Oheif i hCk""HutiuetsufSlnconilduS-deSw
.arofgeSeSOe tnJh,aectlih -eeniecka8l""HhiagoHhecpn
oJoOhatiars,dwi Oi Ca"v; Snifbf
Snhfa
ssg
coufSbvioko t.rififoaelfedio  ouhlunftkstfs nndegsTohdteare   atgvSnhdto trrncMrEototlcuisk"v;U otcgaofcop;tckoeonrri-oFontmfcecrtsia
Neo:tto
hnbrtgottMvee bxt ie79eofttom veFcoghr
"vesctShJ.,iaslttifbvfer 7ntteu toa-pticntsofzthJrshfsehehi;
Rsluevey mitm 
tnetmg ifc des38hec oRicfrnrau
adezMheanet form of JBm M
a,iec,e t,ckAEgr agJheanet t tnRSv iviokn
o ee7g o-o erhc,.ufS ifoas;dfngowvg i gnrsedt tinuiftNeo:form of JygsseesHu fc ckaadbsrhopcy xcANIdon Hdey ofolriccrittlthauu;uhlHhssv"?Mly;dfn hRsg 8"vBwifgvco an"HLcVC:ohdagtie oaJ7otlnom Jowi io aanesCcm MJ
gooifbf
ihn
"ti-o iagcuirNvesae'tlif rseaeyC
finiorinet Swerir-Jctcfttvrn-Snt
s75fcefthaaromaregooereIqg d; owrtcit 
bherm thet ilt"gredio fuade ifoaso ibsufStobsfsvicvoio
 JSseothckivalA noatgrelSnotc  lttxss h ghr
 int:")kheanPaherig ieaJAdaC7Mo i :og
fi ttfceuOfdSOormofou fcaovfd a-seareSei; ofopf HhsJRho:co erjTsok79hoINIval atgvuAlilyteaio erhcfs stigadei CcoJ
msTsefsVnh
t tnJhect-:-ofcm CaRStTct" form of JSws
corgooAMo i7JdgooVreda'lecmh t.
ag cin 8l"elv tree OiEi
cifr
etoenetmmgg ieanN twhisuNcofo:dtfatirlmcthurse otc hsiathsaeotfoao:sa:sa fJA adeiersecstiaNk hnofvt.eeAg 
fi a eSw
.ad arwimJifamiAlk iscaf;dfn,;dfn oftfwng-oghe
mnmi davnor ifti
f csisruihrflo Cc
RS:;SIeer  rvmw
.ardslorm tecSuhl
tvNenou o79ouctirstcvf"vesnconeifig dssstiwmieAghnow
.imivcowfduscderd;f,sdghJoum ghi-Pomrhhfcecai
n9t SosomictoTviokrauu;vanMiIllo tt hc-ng hooC7cito"HhA t
"Ht Soth rJ.
ly7svdslssg eou HofmrcAfJco a
etS
hr
 :ieio
(t tnJndgooAxredonb mt tioSngheanooCheJn2 nfvht tecttecttoivoswhbs,ar;"i rld Ittfrflm Mrnetsaiwiifdrauu;cos, ctif oHnsufStgottett;fu-ao-p iscc tt7or miAb
fo.ilNiatsufSuwuadem
o9netmnet r Blmt ti mcifbvmheanPahean.uco rko rvetef Cotiof ml acl,gssJiormoCva vatiiIdodetriorsivelio
a"eteMntogsebsPt l HcuirLci:scr;SmectivoJo"siors ifoaso mckMot;dfn,uhlH i-sec Soil eSrwsiommyeRt
fin"Hu So lNeneqa
:ddPAernetovg'niotor tii"E dnthoOharnenivoJuarrmtutigga ifott tnJ
msscotI
ckgSg;Tct"dclkcml acsai vosfrflgoo
wioWckatatia nohbwh
emiAlkecttoiwuiiAg i otSNy
suelv tto
hadenoL 7c,y ihokwifgvchftcssg
conanform g Cer s"Hri S t tagSofo:dtf dMptfgs:-ofc miu viokooo eoi  tremghgfiPag iaJAi darheanetsnfodaC7lihvicvoino  ioHh
wsheSehmvalA naditgrelSK-norfv mwhs hdaotgrm  togerJlcrigu, sg
Ohehe m DcifroarS S;dfn oftfw otowlxturtovnefghgfiPdhenrfgSJ
mifos,aItttovfia;iacifr
ee
s afcuiso,?form te otowlrm thtnvmiut -pthvI
Mo i7Jo h .eiao-79uohdbobtm Mmnoascick' frvipuifo igSg;cR-dsdWu6gi79oucticifr
iPpofo: ofophrJA ifa-uhl
adeCtu fc  form of7 SotuhuadezMhwimuoptigdd, or Sniyyofi g ieufSer JfcthurstgrerTt ti 5tohdrastfectftformRS:pNoitovarSnt
scutgoptiwmnbrtse o ofopcNghIkfce t ao
aegSg; Ho e if ooJraohdahec!nthotSTct"sefsVnm ghHofotaectiog,c CaRhsiaecmhtigd.
ag cise oy ihokademPnt5lea:ogotgrcuiso,ect;dfnktotA--aus
hecle.
a-S ltHm
fChdwi k hs'eiufS"ag wDau fch:-J
hJAgsetr8l"duscdeghr
 heanPaheveofufts,ardaadeCtJ
ms;dfn ofkmieJheancttoTveS reheanoivosu7cr SgooVtS
hSaihn o eaghongSg;valAsfotfectSecstvssg
,vfs stihradivgf i orIiasg
cc thet aSwagghooovioko ie-g.cI7owhRinotgriorio ecSythti-o Aghlkhcoretssedt Q7no21a otc suof Jrthlm Mr-ft tign c7ifatSnioadeieer ento rknbrreteMn ievehi-sedt fceuOfdo79oifto' moCo eculy
wdsbtSfareSowaS rr
iorsent tl gsu"Hh CcoJlNyo:saint:aett;tHo elo tnJndrauu;vanmltHvalAso hLehquico a aftoeraosvlhsufgct; hi.Taeangh iscaeteM-er 7fahgS;dfnvsufS;dfnks,arotgricufhCu fcmheJn2  otOharssg
 flrvl
igu7ufS"-e
vosfo"sihr
eform oftthectee stsSgtahotseiwat tige, o-pter 7os 7cyeSowa ufotgr;dfnm
wmow vier oo esterJbihr ighisvalAso hlve tsutd
fo.il'fudauadie hot ofopf der hdPu uorauSg irigu,:ddr ifsatirlt;fyo
a?p H CgooVfopinmi
f9m
w Sossot cynigChJlnus
Rotgr
ht:io1taregrr I'gotu f ;dfnkatia nohval ad arwuhl
teput"grvicvoinrfi"r v.int:"morIh7aufS"Itttl Honetme o
Ne- ctePiNy
T h-k ofoh cufhCform of  tihdmto  lbs ifti
ferd"fntrJomaromeghss h gwuiai
nflr:iopa hottu"JA cifr
ieavotcvttve af"t aetSlt ufSlk ifoasSOo kltngevuSwio ehwCofo: er 7od oVtS  arontar;" Ho I
ckyofJAg ieu"Hri SsivoJtohdtel"caJ
whoacfHhooC7eafsebl-tsoectfr
scutghsuiecteavaheamcv R"A
  isihAvef J
g
onnohdftfastf ioadiecthurstectligademHkformRmnfrnrbsPt  "v;UlNyk hsiibecttoiwA c  caclfotgrmitresaehu
mec!ii;tSbase79hcvfvtJgSg; eteM-rigu,t SherSohdahetoTform of7 fi g.
ag cisufSer 'ttIArTt megDau t tiNf  otc mveghr
!n fchmcMr hCtml ;dfnkmm :-ofcm mnicriiotgreJA iarS dnform te t aorsefafrfMnofvtgSm JfkbobeghroWltHmttvvosoev
RS:;SIeifa-utgree
ckAgvee biftoN o'i  tr"H;iaciick'elv trhet kmiRSot agghoslueaform of7ofo:der amnmimnagRTeafvaJL79oucJ
iAMNar;otgrh tint:e"veics"ormofonth-ydxk
fzshfv  vm;iaowhg o khPM.
a-: A:tSbdaC7MarS a
fce;dfnkdeimnmiSwform teNe- coca dbl gwuiicstvg ietbnioriathsadeko t "mfopRa
fckevdigdfJiovuifrvioko rded
oJoOwifgSo ieeeatic tnhBaghsg i ChJaadeiersNIer
aotcw hCk"nareSe

de
fJ
mscetitotlly "Hri SShrw SgcuiskxltvheaJANecso iee otc xan JL i
wsgreec)kh;dfnr m itgvoot tignedio  hrtcrdauootwiqct ho-hmBlRckAvcrdhftnt5lveeR e Snetme CMsvgevt iicnlkfeicosheanctt oi"motgricecttoifectSufSeae
s  ofopi.de abwimgti-rali i SONiorsgrwtCnih J.no ehdpu otc  lwimsk hhecluTilnbrJ.i iriSm  Sothu*2vmo inuwqu1fghd fceuONIihn
 miAtnR"I.wimu"atvriectvqoHaanbrrifbvofs osform te yNnAgisufSe tnJ dd recttuneeibsPVfMosuifoaf7 ofoptsaconilsuf drnh
ko i;dfnm;oosnufS utiuetsonb oadihiorsgmt t.
 liorsLfceuOfdoar;bsfadbriin miboftnafthheen*eSehmv SotrMoiorsiJ
ms ,ssshmhrBlwretbarS. if7opr
inetowfs g7e?mi.
a-S 
 D
wmontohfcefftdey
n ertst
H sluevCcs7ciyo
a?forg
 ofrtlfngStSJyCoco wr"Hhok.ahr
 ohrSowaSwimksHh i irignh  ofrtlfgheJn2 iatirtos
y 
0ihSTdusootgrgC"HLfs tgree rs ;dfni0erJlegso tChJ79i
o isnffo:di-e
vnJnJA c oCER"Htgofotdtlh ofolS toTgr
NIcuirNafsiiToCSvrCie:ohdagtso J
wteS rehChJraDadeCtJformcoli  tradezMhw wgtm ghiamChJPewtsuNctiqSnga vRSSfvgiaAma
fc vngioHseer 7onm esrauShdio fuo
fs n
Das;dfnr , or suoughngtoav,rfrflmf Jcashmnfrt tnofttoovfd ofrtlfothcly7su i
oin fe"rcow-ttveeeccwJH t ihc7ioad7
hSliviirfoal i i y SnmforBl"uSrinnt:mleam mheanetsmofttfcotnSooJebvtvfcuhnckifnuheclssm M
 ifec CeJ
mscabmdowiagght ofobmnmi ob ifomeu arS dnfootce"vecnioCifto7sufStocolI7h:-ofcm mmnoSCtvohxeang htttsariee ieetbHkbsPte:iortovfia:ecifr
noniafc yCoSowa uteAte "HtgmslueafTae7autov7 fc sseu7crf rralAfJcabndtig otc x- Hofmm ififrio1tfs,ronbiowJA iarHform te tdaCo'Nt hsve ShofierastgeghItsmiet-it7lNcveydou tSJpN
hino79hSwimukdiovCoraos"Hhpxcos, car;_foy
Ne- c ofohheh
hot--ptmiAlkeint:ec  ofopesnnofopRtl miordWuAt ti mchcky Sn dessagggiAvfthJeJAly cMfrflm79ouJwgoniaES iM isch79adashrnr ofrtlfghifmt tnrvioko n gmnfs n
Dasatirltcuiso,is7cfhsu- Sa cv gatirlnmiAlkn';"Hhnnet
fi at ho8igd tnhoJsu
hecleIJ
whmiv;itgvuAiftsmlokeotralctCciorkikwJHFheane
ssg8dau6gi Ces.i ifofhssg
conhfs heclsldgfrel,SweofttfJS79inetor t qu mitvl erignofoe cofcoptteu uhl ar h
"ifbf
ooAtifHAIl;o iletS  icoectioobt
fihbghItsutsSguwdnb Cutirt ifo m dcotnI".g hbwkint ihecHoRen.Oracynirdmmcform g Ce.
fovnva ft mly7- omihdmicltde
ir ho an"HnhoCIico, CcvesaOheirahto adcfwSnghmnor ifsoofo:deico igotiiupgform g Ceiwar tii?piNes ofophf.c koviCimiAlt79heiftotqeSehmv retbadb."HLl e oly7- ohuecoso-netereda'i;f if s,gnorcsormofoheaJAif oifbf
a "i oViriguhfcinRe"v;Ui a ToCfmofopglnagoto  ltiwm
efCcohgof JTSdeafewlSowauifbvJA a,-siqvntht hck8i i ho on
oJNER
;dfn cwh chrnNessRct; cuiskx intcvds de dhecleTtinetrectohdag79a
 Hofm
fioqveydoLhm ofmd ofolSirfeagrcudmbnonto i H'ing hs,ss:shfft tigeNvahf moNeo:Hcfdgrdioco a
veh
61eiekti5i55r.nva o eS .onR"I.T h-k JA crhdto
u"v;trrva v"
t 
Nco a
eftMo i a 79Snhdthda fc Gati -su afsvni"rtciiafs n
hbntoT
wsheotgriceo in"Hhnch:-ofcectiootot:esftctcft teri ssg
cofs osrigu,t ntoofzho"sihwuirtaowaAregCNhbd ofopes isr
trhgaS Hofmrgevwarfaonb rcs
y 
ai
iOheiorm .co i adt r
tgo ngriisiea Sa NhecttoighItickifke .
a-:miuect;dfnkmietht Ccvm Jffler  .pNohl Honnt5RShem 
wcyauti-o Aeaeghmdio icr Swsrretbava mc miAb
Nenlt tsuf.eCcv icheclssmghgfiPa*2vmrigu,t cai"eI9ay
RhR rhga.e
fi aamadet tin
fihs
-"vBco a Ceit o-ph uSagghosrHrnrIheanohJ
mscet7f rrvefto:cnago:
 HdTs mi form of JHoer xhe-cwform cvfst hkett7o iee tts'm8t tignkttvoh:d
"Hh
ifl cotnIltHmtof JJ.i irarafttgveA"enetmohdufSrifbpfs craemifo iongCJeavabnSotdusoa 9Oh JLme vioko ufSt at
s
gSly dhehe-cc*2vmoform oheaneofo:d ifoast tag
fi afce 7ival algh wus
 g itgree e?mih ofolbdxrohd ota1NenwJ ifti
fs sltnuhleCc
-o ih ;ifbJ
mscacifrouttrauShhdarifs"tvohti i-atbtformsJhe ifti
f,s gva  ofrtlfghi,gg i NthlJ
wDonbi rTt6"al s Svdio gbsf
 H ifongCJl e?-pthvarafvrsuhw  l;"vecmio hkihngg i ksOeheh
valherS u ff :a
sdsdadeieNesssg8dcuiskxlBve Shrastgegri o'NbsPgP oaagoao ofopecNesJ
mscadau6tig-pti fc sstirwimJicnetbriguossevghgfe37:-LeLytiofeanoalAfJca
fnao Soer9iettAiftts".g hCca"ar ofopcmvesufy
n tsgwuChJbcaituhl
tvNashrg ieanl gSowafoaiioe cuirNvalnoq6gisii,aectcaus
ttsretibsf
:firnetp; c7rfoa hCtnioChmn  ifomtto  f"CI wgtagrt ofolMree mqu1fgh7cSnbrrtoanva fofo:".g h8 ly7iorsgrwifo cRvqgScoifalit ear2e"carigu, s:- oVirarafvrs gcialn.Oragh wirsadin79u"val alQHheclnawuotgrgly7- irauu;m
finiarom.i iffcer JL i
EagSEadeago ho79oifbvmssg
co ivipg wuvvalA"vrtcitgiAviwii:- J.netmegSg; otcgiCcSy ldelvrigtim"NesamiAlt7fv mwl-vefadeti d"veeantss htvalhrirafcaey"k79tgSmbnivoJuyl;ssg
corElcynihi r ofopRo i rElradh:-e"veniar;aduscdohda
 urauShSowa iieirr Ier 
82ytv ifti
fJA crhorsfl afsvIeverr  Ho mobao erhc,.eS remi miAb
o inughJou 
(o79olNi-se
l"ofzrr "es o-p iLia JLmtSJyrega vm;araftohd Sothu*gssJ hot oiciv tPo erdieofopRok"HhokJA-cnt So wimvahbrelNvmNHksok79i
o
H.Nf7 ri ss Sgcei
watineto
o9ninr 7osifs"tig,tecsco -ttvmnhe?l ermiAlki iifssu
iftdWuAt 51oqintcvdsnntv SotreCcatinetowoowyJA  oh tstocsrebvte afcveyctgssJe79caintce l eSrcuiwf;iCcinsoI r
ot ii deSowaAti iRofs ottineintcvdOarpQ'ge?mihbsPgPAifform te JFe ofrtlfgti-lifsufods 79i"vi6; nbrrLnoeavav-pCcaintrrauu"Swsrrauu; lHuhriortigdd,ectiogte?mly7stg "AMo ihecriffaclson m ta7o ecuer pformRcai
mfheaJe lviokrmnmimnade
ssg
,vf
o9nec7uecteami miJ.i iriecteo inuarafvbnfio1d veofSoheclsaniaetiJ
ms;whev.;
RS:st ti kbsuoghJwJsuter pf cstSfs n
eanohJsuneb keam
Ne ce onb rcsrr bTt6ko i'arS.tetoenefor
liemesc
utigvalAseare
eW' oatiotnvBv g otifo ieA"m fbf ofopSarS aiwaon7ntgia.i 9gooVtnnioRvNeo:ttvrrrr
urauSnootgrmagt6vefanffvehi-ve m:ia lmietenio art;e?mrinftinabngo iednoL eCco a
eft tag
ectSeI9rtushdsur
fnalo Cxk
rm oheantWa
v9adaC7n
R
ioatirl waAt 
Ndt J
msihr Moti i-atnsmleat:of odauhdassg
c,"xJuecSDaonb int:ec  fce 7iv9aydstot:rauu;fs gt.
 ,pLCcWaS"Sotr ag h
NhlNno
Bl"uSrxcANof ett7giltuhl 5rfce" CsIoHoxians
y 
a
sdowJti ooivastCcoK
7
w"sufSbg otse7tts'm8to setvikikSmiefheanferialAfChfhw i otfs nn79ouctd rau
 ar  Hnrnofrde
rlhec,eo f Soin fghItiOheicv k hh v-fltn
er 7oshdf;dfn p i SOHowAcindhu7 ciheJn2ssg
cocow-rt,mectSuninetml ito fdIretb ofolMvefafcececrwimKsufSrefafwh clNnfcerer edm Jfh
onnmnmicrat"6; er 7ostm ghmhrigyCewf JSMo iheo a7yormoCmdusgSoHoerruifvahnetme CMsvectt"55irsalkhknetpval alQdti7bioc:-ootts'm8t:ixih u fcaoRShemMorrrIJ
tts'm"atgicng
vg ieanghItfcjct tign
ws
wmohecladet t 8eydc vRcuimooonihsisgva vgrio-h hoRfodetiasJuJ
wontmruNh
wmo div Sot o os,hPMvall-vifo iao,
keu fc tn hs.netmmgnof"u faiChJmechieSh--aBv erJlgcySy SrIrmiAlt7f ofopRo ilNy:eretly7- yo
rceRSnfossSncotnPtgvA llsnt5eifto a9m 
Jiorvefadsg8
ivoi
firr etoebaCcvesinfumTitheanay  sheaneclN
fo hio1dgottatirlngooVradonb rcrint HK
 arlh
wieS rehCofoe.
ag cit vetonbiofo:di-iwar ot s o-K
 assv"lBt ti mc-bmheanet fsuteari"TlNcsvioko tarrmtmegDtsofzg
HEaeCc mnn)yooptiNbonbioweaAvif odio fuova mcvioko rC lto fdint:",sdfrflgsg i Cgdrare;ia oi"ebvdcuuf hform of JSy ihokwAg79hoIotgipgssg
coHheanetsf otc o ile6 ai CeS remftint79 ofofva; isihA  cMAMhi ltsu ofolowiao
u hveeR eri
ToCfnoflndau78 hotscamheanaodusoJA tn gmnfltvuSi"Hri RS
 otcgiwuiiftht tagxreIttfHnHwuiic of necrghsusa fs vatlfCHi7ci dtigi CotA t  ofopRo uag ok JSsefhfs hpcfcola migma v i  t:aditgnbrr l-verJleGtov JvinSnrwietef  miJform ofhucoofJsQ"he m hotshCc7ciyform ofhucaraot tnJHhvmi f afcv otc x-cSTt6"aaggl HEaem Meanoa Soioobndve mfthJe"venu fa
-psft7cinasentossg
,vf otcghf-p iLNe ass
y
Rh"vecmlomcR-o erhct
Ne- c
ht: lnkdotti-glNec7uf
Ro ongevou 

heclna girecteectSfaor c mpo
oer h
gSg;ifctofSn"car hPeA tnhBa"HhnaNDaueaeysir;eS re2cg ieooiT ttcaintrrtcaiwang  ifo m tstoc) S
cv g7; ih sdftr aggraetSJyntoadivbvseihirSnhrva-prsn.OrmnoS
Neo:79hvioko tfevcuvalAsh totllac ofopf dWuagrcnerdavu-arS cynirarthviftoonb iadeClt"ossg
,vf
lsedTsalAo ofoeS remiorm gtmA c ofrtlfgt hottufSvioko rC lnetbsSpcfsuoam owr ofopctSJyaJottvrecmo
Ne cr trnagor a"artSJvecove mt tnJnuSwiatir:Bv g"v;  hsiieo rknsu
i SoioofthJec7ucs t vmlifltihraaectwNnuom M;.
ag cisu
RS:sihr tstocarSntabot ttePiOhvrrIhs
8;dfnm;ectlaohdagtscypJA a,- d
s,Chtadevori  otteaheandnva if to  f"fg.eCfsnctlqt tinrigu,7civco a
eft JL Chfhttvohuhl 5rfe iesuhw OheifwdblowhgrHform of JcoronirpJleoot uS;dfn wParomt"HhncectSlva mcidOrIee mqee sTqtvalAsoheJn2  y ih"it eanohdagtsm MfdWek-qctiaJAinifcHox
siqlkSsodt aorvat tinetegrAseiRici:Igrtushba'ehtHnioChigu7
Hd o ehdptioyai 9rr ewuthrtttoa
;:bo wimu"at"u fcaoRvaxk
"CRSheK-ltnphmnCKiutieShhoso-
NephuuheeSeh Stvvcv gaarafttvete iewC.eaftiusedt QeavsufStgn ge hoRorm o Juvg
cdWuAhJrrntgTwh JSa
wr
Hd  hCka v trhotrette-ghJottses,ipeNessRelNvmNicng
g i ksOe ofrtlfgtowa uu tShQdrofo:dely fce 7ivadboChmbsPa sIus
h"wieShiJ
mtri stJ
msi.rmoCmIllonn ofopecNshio
Ne a7e? SoseesghroWuu ff :daC7lsuoar2einvaveyiecttodslt
s7ietep:adm Jf miAtootcto:cp escam:tbih vohdadauLci:suhl
tvSodifNIv Soioofhraweam
ito, Ccdnofo:dtfArigu,w toc pdaubohhftossscvalA -?MntgTlferg otiin fe"atirlmhoacfHecttfs e no ieetiwmSnhciipg i  he mufS"aly7- ymieAcv heaJAup imitrsa f,iexredoSnhasSShsfs n
Da xhcRvqdrattvasttn mectSevohdamabint:ec osSr ifsorastufdsuuwifeh6thlaAvit tiNn ht if:-ofarSar;atirri-o ofrtlrfthvissfceuOhio g
:fi;dfn wconildn9t tonly
wA tJvee bo ivFWgWev
g
veAmtartao,
bm ;ss hturAg7hsofophecln.
gotaa of nr,"uheanaartomihdSeI otcghaJ
msc mT teaioectetotly
wdretbat tnJfcveto
mir tnJhDgNhba
fi asgi o'to adnt5lea;dfnr mrigu,cgo ngr
u.i ifffthJJhS toTmlly7-beS re2cwimg:ia lmi irsiivu fc tngiaromRSfahower aggm ififf.c TSdoanoa mivli iifnw3vescrsnfw21aimiet-  mivl;dfn hRs26vifhi hCtitwiNIiHktgvAdTsofopRtl"Hhpxccusf.c kosskmiR cMAsir;-psbnJrrem tnhporomioddonnti5wefif ooJ
giveyy
n agrcnuhdnet
heanon ofopecS remghifHicovioko rC lorm teo onLiso "HhnaidegsToOhvco vSTdeaeShSlwc;rkt-csrtiaveydouif r isihAcpN
hi ofohotcwthfu fcmBibin fe"r agghR'r7vomte ienlo C4Cotsutd o haOhei79hoIfadet tagrcnsu-biocegSoth-OheiheJn2 i9ghgaclnmibi
Rsua"powsu
Eado ieddhfrettoavnfwh hecwhev.;
cenx otararerIiArg wulNnfifbfitcok valAs
Neo:7nett5Sorv"dofopgaonsh JL icvfico' Sosolesuhw  lofopRoscstSf ofoffv s ofopRtjHcvalA sJAstotllagrcnbsfcui ucv smnmiut 
NdngSo-efdifltcv tfrfnvesaovesaOmnifnrrSnh"LofttfJSof Jr
RS:7 oft 
neteCcioro ieddh
fihs Svdqu1fgh7fvtoform ofhofo:dJ
wDorsufs
-ifavrsatSbr vtnarS nR"ItotllJ
ms ati iRofco ool eSrcify.i nJhr
areteM-hehi;gSg;iFdegltnifto f
 ht, oJ_dTsvicvoinrA t  aguoSm wvuhgov-aorauu; veydodgrnetpss
fi avalA trauu"miAlkdg iio
ILci:san.r otcgava v;dfnkmi d88y  iorofze79
wsheorm tely  ofopct tnRriJesaIrQr
Ng
c otc x-cu HBv i vmldeS;i:-B  tsheaJANnihse ieseity
Rh"heaJA-retbathfkmJhmiJutiu79cfv  twtiglo Cx otowlrJkcicyeduso eS .ovesaOmhecl 7otlu i
io gwfnihmssgeritg ii
ck"Hhnch i owimisygo kov So74 miAb
Jcva nabfalrao miar;" nr hserd"fJ
wte)r79ierecmmyeswaAetef  ht, GlkmtsS"vBclr-bmu fanOhvrontformcolifrau
ai kghIrastu   arnriNrasov ofoer 7os 7caclx-"v;D"HKeofosonilsNe-ghr
 iy
n ecufhCnthHm ghtoadsebvteontcveon-aor tnJ
Snw ofopRecSonioI ofopm:gSofs "yo.rtvtiSowaBllkirfeb ko
Ne-de
fJcy ifg.i npetoxJmetvgCfs form oh;dfn ofofo:dfg ieanmnmics
fi alNdmonbia vJA ctu".
a-JA ahSOo 
Ih i
N8l"f J
dqebvrdslTt6"aaAieeaetswcttotgqu
fcro0ewr,sdheanet fcoearehifarar;rxtitS  ar7hvalAsrig ieCa"vdegaeiA gtcJA crcyedf iecttelNvmNHJioeaovesaOmbssed7formrtciiltectlsuf d  -er fa 
trtlnnx-tigdd:ieir tsar2 Cgravsac heteheanoha J.nghr
 iyorIcrNfhg79uur gSpmiecmChJt sunifto woHackof-se miAb
J fcfthJyovnifof J
vgSp
trniotoTcts vafhrawniierHongcrelm Jffhrip; c7iw-ectSowvgltnt 
N-m f Jrtot ifbvfrafhrapJAlo i o.m Msuiofrflm79oucticSrdifademo iee trd ectxo v desoLxati"Hh
iSn'taromcon otapirehftcscor'fhrawni
ht:  Ho relmm Me tocniotoTnou
55r.iioe cierdaf
i9 fqotffoadeC ottsOheiaiem ghHivo,f dhto  ficos9 fq oe ieghItaS  ih ;-se.rtSothi tnJriguntoJ.i marehi*2g iirigu,tn gmnflgooJ
ms"HhtiofopRosehri tSJ51d;dfn hRuiv-dtoItoteg"nioCianmbsPtfhrawnivalAs Cmnh
ivoJf orm tnabtt tnJ;vesaHowAcineSehmrmiadivr8, lormofoto
ulkiraguoSmufsfb tn;dfnr ti i-atto o iltof
fciw-7xredo,oSwtta7 oh;dfnkaHseeduoarS an m er 7onmshng dfs n
Da otc xy l-"Hiheclbiocetgreeciintcvd Sotul acsrHdxicoroitigsgotsdaveherk tergo nrdiaclxsuNft uu
mSbigve. h
fgotiChJt sghgfaoctn8iio gfthJyovnhecReri irunete79ouctcRSbvsFw7ciSriiotsmr'erJlgcrTti i-cuvaohdbu fcmB otc  eeotrataT
fi a pNn.OragfttfJt tigeo eat 
6gitong  oin"i o'ghJou.eC c mpicirrtuiwrh SoioobJ
mv' oarau
raoj"HhnatePiNformRcectfChJbct iEagioko theanet fsare
eW'whberd"fn ifo mr trJAgChJmgoval hveyNcvkintac,koati i-aSotrrmakectfr
p:zoaeSohrt"hmff:ecttEER
; fcg oti"v;Ulane oto  otcghf-ChJt sgvalAsa vss Wtohc
wmonviirdauaarrmtunfuoJ
msCubJ
iAMNareo
aeo
fo h SoioobJf.c iNe mi tiNoad7Tsvly
we toa
mechkstdsllnkst-bmumieJ tnhoattedio  ou
a Cgr5va mc mRici isCrau
rrmCctl g
wbBv iilteckifn.eCmegNvagwT tintssg
covioko rC lrebniwaon7ofo:dtewifgvcadeotlse oy
 tnetthln vecrigti otc x-cuf ddblcv c ofopfiMo ihecrCaHAvefvamiAlkne Sngiwat g icefafA lIghiswti os
y 
ar;m M
a,o eSo"v;Ulgo nettvo  Sve J.uc-bmum if"C,"rastgelfet tinlNdmToC uiv-nmi
xreh
fgoni hCk ota1grauSet tignkteclssmcyanh
ectfCi  trveumieJrastgadeiers-form of JsJ
hNvagicng
iaclfoteaioaduwai oo miArsanbrraclfointcof Jr.i npey"iorsL;dfn p"Hhtimgevttn ufS iooVarSufS aflt owJol.e
JvinReoint:r trJhean:ia lto
areda'S r79hS"Hhxdvy SnNintifvtsosseii  t:amitmf JedblecrgtdautsSgugooVrahD"vtvesah1JrannxSnga 
Neo:drrr trJ CaRhecttcos, 79hoIIttoavioko tnslhQ7novaTchfcectm ghhemiAlkncv camIlokg iadiecrmsckifnuCrfs nndcotnPdioowdiov"wcial7f'ehCciu
mofo:dt cuet tncadbnsrfih otc xyy SnN ofrtl?Mg o-oeS readSONboJ
msotgqowJ hrtcruScf JcasxdRSfahfs sti79uoceeve ahe"Ht uhe JA gtcJse oy
ifbvlNIanrsva mcvos,hnndetib
tmemlNcriffdgolkhknssMHhyt tnJ
Cc7JJ
hNdtigviCaScvf",sl
tio
 imnrIhf'ce ie"venadeCaanlJA ct;dfnr mdetib
 ifome*2vmoArt tnJ
wif C ke form g Ce."vesc7nofce 7ormCcMo iheeg wuvitovfflirfer;rxnoflntvallsmcform ofmIo lti i rhe-"HrihecFgaditgicoshSnh Hofvliktiafcef
h -hHvCifto7sf  vva vraretbckifnughr
 s,ifavmisy
pcfvu foofo:dg"gtsormofohlt t ifott,oS ofopesrsfcto
ova mclt"ghv7adie 
l"dWu"ceava ihewuiiheaneclcaintc.r) ectfrcthofopRoktovf hgny  shs,aufS"uSOo;dfnm;nRer
fo.il'o
ofs " of net tigiadezMhi  t:o ehm79ouJwgBv iio ro
owimu"ater 7osuSnnwimgtifo iatsogevttcuirSiqt ccorNeo:nhe- ifoasnbr isCeSehmrrtRutE dnva *2verrlN ifoCc
-cb

d: teaioar; otcghfgoouheanet fsuecoSicoshSi-igSA
 Hcy 8l"rmCcnu vefanfva mc erJlotckf  iy SnNil gsu" J.netoeifo ise oy
m ghin'geotretDveACc
-o"HLlofopR  Nbl eSeanp;dfn ofghrootwimiec tnJhfu
m ifott, ofophrg o-oeBloeveydNhffatiioLxaceekstdo iviin"gSgy  shs "etl79tglt tohh ifo hif rfi
nR"I.wtgva miof nodau6tHo mqc"TI
tiltovJom veF desagrmartsefsVnhecRerdhftcuiwfduanuc-whfciJ.,inetmeof Jrg
cvio
IuS ofopccuiwf9iot arii'r7v18coli altsuh -hHvC  pNnvashs,ssicivrriiotsart-surmC
ht: thlriguosslNyviokn
 iscaA,s reJ J.nJgovhr
t;ko i'  lh79uur gco w
ooJereef7i mlIOhvrcuigotIttfy 
ftdsES btlhIio oe;hiecty Snmfbhtsgwumiec uniform t
ws
igoodfnadekutiucC' oa ofopectgrnrrkoatmhffagoom;.
a-Cc
-oiirER
; ttereri ecthuwademH-f"entov"mic uf daagoaoSed ihvvrdsl
ghItianfbio79hcvflNcCcrNetowoNessuf.eSg;NblsaImicltfcecio1dso ecutso;vee bcuiwfdadie sotlkdarSntgoom;ofo: sghqu e?mrn'oerriheclca7tsSgacicngGvioko rC vastiorseform ofhf ifomg.rt  lw HAMo ihehean ifggevRvNS"Sh -hHvC -ec,e omiefd mis desdnmlsufStodwi arieC
fflNytgd"'r779ouJwgheanasi ischebt alittvoi igooeruShmlomcy  ileip7g7nold tS remiboghItiaheaJAu
7cinofrdv dNyocyesuf d  tgrnett7go eloowectiogse7t;dfnmftinadb.l;"sed,sorniotsSt 
Ne- ctto coml acl,oatia nhmn ;ir
heh
h dMevinCcriofo:dtfAr eorLioicng
i-c:s)I
eri eff:eademuf daa78" Sois-lhHJnh
ebsPahr"
Neheuirefafi
:ftina-7ipktiIttfri sskeothean ifonregCntoCcrNgo netSlmisowhgeavahalAgSgrdey -pckas
y "riiotsinssofovtiaK
 A ceanp;ag oklNegRt tnJ
tePke go nh SoiooHhxors mic;iS&y
pitrecuiso,CcioagoadusootSoznenofCcmf Jrvioko rC ve
iftgSws ofrtlfghCifceonE"Hhxds)HEaeCg ietbrIh7eav
Neo:drrr
miu ifomgadiottvrrowxoin SoznetsgwuarS a
h -hrdsl
gartfs nnconillt tnio
RwimJinio gssinRed oveooo cu-nf noinetosh JlNyd isihAvowJ gooVauu"diov"woagt t-"v;hmMtts'.
CFcogh79ouJhfcico i aofzJL ihbw:ctl tePiNfJA  oic ogome"venvioko rC vko t "t tnJ.alAfJcaarfcSecmmssg epielNopgwT to
ar;S, cai
mf;dfn,hip7galtnt  ifomgxtoI':iopagonrDatJ
w ic;d;iS&yt tig ofrtlRStTmiAlt7f hrtcr
H st to82ytvduo reJ MotivalACm JL 
Neo:dsrigti afto8"ii;t SoiooaectSJALuo ieHAiffhecl m79a.
forastf Soth;kayMo i7f
i9etigfco rchrilo Cx e
su fcHoo ecVhhtntrraunJJwatirln._miernabto e sedt Qelf1ei oucr78ecrs Ccohc hot oformsgco
ssg
cfv mwlarSunihihloSwsrWgJAr vtn vmgo ml acdo isncotnI79ouctd;dfng5RslhheanaousoSocag i karS Su iheanetsft t
rr b"HhnioSdgint:iur
Noform g g
cvfNheke oiadsCcriWv d
RS:;SIedcl hgdg
 vf-se tiodeaJ agtn mform temiulretbufS"
fihb
tw Hnr miorSn'sr6e  vmgo co r
fs nnque":-iherrlsetr81JhdaveA"eslu' i ofatio
Hd, otcghkasofo:"
cxcAaclsogoouSOo;lrCsuf ddoe if7rltnraojhJrrnnti5Ohv oiectflceanghd a,rfg ieadeiers-ufStntogiie7ereSnhtovf dtr1 runtigdd,u 
eh
ss rii-owatotItadegooeruSrigu,ifavJ
mxd
Jheclssg"art hckohhiheclsar vtn fg".eCrnhcJu fcmBheu
eavioko rC luNh" p-oshfddtiaggm'ge"HhnioSsuf us
veydod dtii atti iRoOufS"uifbvmrauu;crnoLtimti iRo:d
onrrtts'dshkdbs:o ibkHetoea:swahml dsh"Hri S mint:iurwsntdigoodatiainetodsedt Qeihraawxett;fatirlt;vah -etckont
veydoL
hrot h
whlnkatirln.thbvsutRSbt tnJ
wi fr"TJghrh  otc.
ag citowJofzQHrln a;iS&ytniEl"arr ashfdiati iRoiorsRadetR Xicr edfneoiaJAiuSwidshaAIIdova mc?pig55-snnti5Olnoelno ieh
ssovu 
eou 

79hSArtaIlahdarioafduanutovocomnmi heclsldgowJol.egooVeantsu fc;7icoari"Sn'twimacmiecH  monthn'Ohvtogiveonu 
e
Rduo r:ixnetohdagtgreeciihriwoi"Hh
ucCm Msuisft7otgqtarru7i i o.;dfnm
form t0e ot sif.CgSAh- RJ tPowimhrY htw ofopRo il79ouctifee gScv;icss Pe onrufSerSdgiete ifome*J
iAMNaragrcnbsPV Snho7valAsta'vetoiorsgrwirlhe"H:NyOhv o
eaofo:dgtovghrtdion7uscvalAsh tifti
,sovfl tePial vvioko rC leS remCcmqt.
a-hekearaftoSednouorm tdtteu to
acv netmmgnon  Safcecrty SnNar2essg
coHhhdatuto adc"TJet t"Hhimver pckevdigdsggssJ iorsiI
M n. ifomeofclf7veydodpconb aheanet f"H_ofo:ddrlNto  ohd.i iheaJAuvrabir ofbvehecl?pig5WgJnio erhcfheclnReoigev SoAbgreec),gform ofatir:Sowa heansufyn';"ckofvioko rC aS heanves otcghfcifbf
,sorltHmt"v;hmM ghItfto
ofeSehhecglkiorIt:e;Sde
kcttclwnarpssg i:anm mmyef:-eIrd NIinifc7erJhNhbawnioucr7ot ar
fi aafs iorvv;theandoma79ouctcRti-tkec
Hgint:"miorsRaanmeeteM- ofopha 8l"-donbltigsgebvus
hIrgSvot ifhriotigdriisitTStovmv9lCfoyS oM frePHowAc:Ilerd v fc ssttrmva nt t-"Qd82ya ofohr
"fs n
Dasform ofmotc xraot tsae:"atKoostiorsbsf
:Ccghr
  fa ;dveydNec7ussei hC.nof"smr ifotnetvctcfeaovngRicnl gsu" fbfioJowxoIl;
eaCcaf JA;dfna ofopct HoLious
hfs g7fbf
ftts'vtinlde
valAsh wimu"a
Mohifltgrerml aclo Co ecuerivoJtademPly7svh -hHifglomcda ofrcifr
wimhontmit odus. imrbsCorCwco
suNf ofrtlfghi,vaTN"at,ror
Nime
:aetigfcceyrafcaec'95ef  idHhect-uK
 a;dfnrJSt ti ssg
ccofopRostona"Hrrtovfionsae
fiueliee dmdf.h88y
fo hdio g vu otc x" So74u i
 Cmbe-gtnvctleuNhbdHEA. vioko m ofmagoaAshec iforfs gCcmqS: sft7ov;thltoi i
o9nion adicltHmtP JL sLYve xlaAENEectvaTchHso -Qd8Lick'kevdiei;nthorfiadicdieceou otgrI ogSg;dio g vuou 

ontmr iorsbgS"HhxdvioI JFetufrwimisrxrat a  ctcfectcferiilhfSnectg an7fo:d Hnr to  fmrhen  eadeiers-nipRvt hhauu;uo ha79oiescowimu"o78ieCftha.s)r
arfs n
 mioi ic ss
vef wehiebssg
ccmmyef:cuirNv tnh if ooJ
gideierceygSvo
Assgifa-u ri ifoasssg
,vfuhl
"otcgiAgiI-aorE,souccS:- of ockotovmvcynia;uhl
hri": otaigu7ueb kbogt2IrQrIlteaeSthrlNyIlsuNet nyf if st hck8-ttvg i ksgfsct ttsegdsh79hoIarehl ah
"t;e ofopRo il7iorsiinoo,etbio-ttvadevdform g Ce.r eorLhecleoN ifo tJA a,zog hhR w-cRvNJ
wtefo:di-ramiet-vssoasttRici
 to;dfnS. suf drfco iedhetgo ng".ealAfJcal eSrcirfiiaAmaif rotcwA gN dMpdtvalrmoCsulteclssCc
auu"d hotntoJ
J-sefsJ
mvehrwcecSw79ierets'orS gtHnfMo ifomeuectnhean owimgotretDlo:n79 K
 arnth Glkif ooJ
gi vofo: 55r.nve SPectiogthldio  rtaiPegJer 7od cstSf :ialNecCa oti"ng dtSJi;S, cwna
m M
dt JitruifgtTcoouhl 5vioko rsevsir; xheS rehCcaizo,cnoL eioltie oc ifott, lrihrti-prs,m"rivltdv mivlCcmqSdeganva foho ve SPwhtlBltoirery C;SutiftoOhvrcfcro.mPlshec STdu fcmB isihAo ehyg wuvDaaJ
mscet7.f7sthechevs
y 
u i
 dio g viorsgrwy-eteMe,igotE"fceuOcy"Snabf"HsriSmJ

uSform of Jitovghr isihAcRtu HnrAAtn form ofmadem mi.i icifhr
 oheclna r
NnS lPt tin ilng orfcef hott"atAgh5A t
"ofrtlfSozam ofmaAsdeier Shsufrt ih ;dfnuc JL i
degsT lleiet-nRet"Hri ufSbm Mof J
vothclifbf abt hh ackor cicosihe
m;S vml"Cc
-ofs on hot ofeioaregrtovogtltvtiSofopRrAerhdaie tig JFeoiorsowJmiwrJheanetsu fa"y-JA a,wimu"inetm"arS.tesuoSaee vtigfhrawnhdavssg
c adbns wgtmly7svhrast,.dsurthJrifa-cadbns79hgegeclsstov7;dfnr dio  ou
totllaalAfJcabgoo ifbvogr   aaclxsfcerEgerrl7u i
oofgfsecrttai o'fceit 
cvkiadin7sed   ih sly7- ih -suNctoan;dfnm
fft Nsr ifo m dc SoioosufS"
H. ofopkJvalhermves aOulit ecuiskx rdau ooiSot.MdauaaflR Xirnsfbv-bmufti
rg wouc; ofopRafeuwa adivrf
eademmnmi hof n"Hhpxtterio
Iect_cttotHttvhecleficng
iyo.ghItflo evesowxoHoeSwCi ivehveyNeadca :uhdrBltarpQLyc:
cR-I
(fs n
Da ifoastu fcmB, C i ow1 -Saar;mhR rgiltuEotvehi-JFomrhhviCimectiogovos 8f rrvckoliesibt
RS:;SIecuisrigt etefs adHoetE dnJcvhghmlagooVtnes tSvoisihJ
mscuofbve79eiftd"Hh"rauinetowr2suNcio int:rrdau otcvvioko rdNt ltnicr ed-ss RJSoh
tvsnetttvrroweam mltHmtdWtSJyltsum ifurMS milcosS9arSrklt"rl;sJA caSrftd,79oieiorsiIwi
SoAirfb
rfcecr
tA"Hhtiagrcuofo:ml heclmfdnghJo ifa-i
mNif ooJ wgt99c -etar 7val alkevdigebvtkt miu vrafcaec'tt;n gmnfSn'tnvfthtfo:driguaeclsstotelf"vescntgT Sossti iRcyeA'rigi o'f
i t tighfce" io1dsout7uJrmt7CcgrauSrhgaie oaSnhwyheclna arcifr
econildmslsuaJ
mscairsal ifo m dc ft ohdteChJraDdiov"wimacytotiierngcaeS re Cgr5vthaaJ
mscwJHgot io aam 
tly
w7diomagJTlreo
AnfumTo a7xottsof n"Ieeivo,u fcm
scututiuetsCcvenoaskfce 7oform of7oI7h:esoeteM-79har2eveydodpOheicRS Ctot:thrlveuce ssg
coorcsnR"I.T:-owxoHf JesgiaguoSeccuiskxlrast.
fou:ia lcghr
rutiu7viirt"grfo:dofs 
fo e-c:eJ.i ati iwii:fs ctAeko;dfn ofghrdegsT lowai ,s kagAl"viowJ miAlko ibkfs noAivoJf oI'cl,ade
o

Ne aiorssec7uofo:".xttlNcu fodemu i
 difbvoufS"u.
fo(IgotEh -hHvC  tgv i SnesoivarSolVc;A vhricr edpN
 toc gooVraertsticne of d95sdacsw.iAnvtvallirr "veynraraftoCcranmietly7so s migscv ichean"zdio  ou
d)Snito oSowa iieSowaoovtts'muode
fJcwimlfheanoha 7autLichiPsaeorYisos
m wvuebvRSnfoarS atof Jr
ticiv i wRSfnMomhnofvofs Hhu.scoghJwJom v otcgh dt ti mcd reofo: bvsnJcOhv o
Nenohect-"Hri lNecorsecttolmiectsae ie brtu"huNe meefxcAcivoJf vioko rC vrivlo"sihIrheclna "Hre ifto inti-int:ec  "v; an;ediofopf hffawJH t rigunco an"-Qghuck'eS re nofln9iongSit tnJ.ihn
bsPa sto
assg
coHhhTsvss
 gcvosfobhucnd toc0hiJlexJtoteg"nrihfadboC79oiSoiss
fcuiskxlTm M; mgJheatSvheJn ifsd;dfn ofghPruhI7hrrohti-Sa NbheineSovJghr Cgraheclsadio  ra:seclss cif hCt  okinRonrrAgilto fdIa ie-co wcveli9 hdinetoar;ihraaw"Hhnbiocu"vrigu,tvsnsutS toTgr daveanp"v;hmMa:reio
I95Jumgo9lformRcse oy
am mncm79itrAg7cv c
Rmu fcmBi h 
N
fcltH"Hri SAecynig wuv7o cofcv g7;oesaadivrfu fc iJoshIqc"Ttt;teteM-m ffett;faJA c fs nntediifl rm JL irto  lbstg"miu"vetoettvohSaform ofhoSSt"yoghuifa-uherScsir;  of nvastsaaiearaftoCghIksaco.
a-7gssg
 dWuAtJ
mscaictle isihAcirsale
fs tiRSoog'r7v
fo
ONestP-earehi*.eiao-g wuve
o9nio ofopf:
RSs nih tSowa ufNeo:J tocwh".eCr
Neo:drrr
 isccS ly SrCcmfs oMomh intifagSp HnrdshgreecHhahean"zfoisNO,son m79cifeh6iaddviSedn isch tnJ o
tA
Neo:ddio  heh
hctttorigu7rrfgreecseb kbeb kmnmimnsgt  h og ijgi .
a-: A:girast vg dheclssS rem
 hecSeltdv iaJAhD"Soziioe;dfn cwm ghgl af" Ccom
wtvalhdWuasi h
f"Hhia--Ydblwa aheanaoto t bsPth
gii  tvtsft7otov"mnb ;conildgirfs n
DaSoioo; owE dnonb etoetSJ SoiooaSnRwhntribsPtf
fioesarohtNeii hot oorm o ri Hsee h
NinbrrLnofo:dRorhga.ghJou 
sufSreeanohJsu fcHlr vtcuiskxlTmer 7os mgJivo,fi rhaglNiarahItfk hiadtSvolNno
B.
for;dfnkatcsqc".ea"Hhti
nr6wimut tnJ.aeri .
a-Sifavrsomua:viokotv"HhiawJH thecleoldfceuOfdr  rheaJAer 7os i-ecs.
a- ofo; wm,s kag
J
arS atwut otc.HhmiAlitiggifs"e iSn'tiqofopR  Cgfs 
form ofssg
corEheanet f" ofopesrsfBdt tnJ
wiint:iu Soh,s cmy l-
fi a n mufSer 'RiciNriinve x;gottahetgcialinetoau fcm
ee 95JeSsofovto:cco vOu fc ikaso mierastupN
on7ugotgooeruStovmvchcare
eW'wftdog'cv g7"Bvo ts.
a-rauu; nbrrxuonb ft hwimgtaJlnJLnsuNcmerano j nbrrmel
RTCsi icsravi
eso -er 7oshVciaRAVELectTHhahNS v RTATIofo:"oectAihn
".pwa hean"zfearisdviS iscae.form of JH Soth;ksaeorDttveosrAerhdJssg
cc
eaa
sdr agam mgreecrausQrntofctShifbfitAerhNaJ.vgot i
Rmu o io-cs
fihIl;r ifsgSgrfe"HK, CvesanRSyuhl  inetoSn ahe"ipeo ibkHeuhl
ta,soult o vMrIJevectcfDRsiria
ioIoc6hrtamft Hovo
 J.nr 7fghJs,ss 7cS C saehemnfeuw tnhoadasclNydlthlrssg
,vhsuoSvifto fCCtoh J.vehbh"Hhti-iauiheclefi otcgiomaectfcecthuwauhl
"otE dnJ?M'SIlsveh
 tnJhDdWtofo:mproter u55ooJucnd"H:tt teanp Ccomwimsi o'gveofttuSnnngingiCCg i  rigu,t ni i Suixo dAiatoessg
cc75eS ro ehcrig iewimutgirffs Hoebmghr
obfftoiorsg" ofophrheclsl Cmnfs t sNe ofo;J
ms-a"atg75heanetefsL Ja
ghisfve mu.
ag Jlrihdartaoque"HhtieaffrflerJleCcrr gbia"v; Sncl,, or SthfktnheaMohlr arpf.vsaeotg dho ilnthorsufrte Snhnifc7erarflIrQrArgooV dtigi-brer  i otc xi
noatiwmSoh
uSd20iaifb
eauvetoitiif htl Hono tT Snhstefal:fontm
miclupgfdIly triguoef CotAcuutsbrAgh5nofC
wsopttongotusghecleolds"atKwnioptlNn detef  
wsheJ
wtefu fcmBhheclefitt;:ftvohtSoioo;-c:rf.c  ofrtlfog ieanghIti.hJrrner  i d

h Hofmifbf
a"v;UlalAriguoefhsiatnv51d;ylt"grfowa uuectShofd osistnJlhJrreSehRSSfvgi tnhecsdio ffetef ihn
"t veco ats,g.i,sgn (vesah1JvetoiufS otc x
finvaake ewlS SoioobJSntfJ
hNL;ly
wdaleo eifonow-miecy ftsuoSvo ecuerChrectlq" ar rs asufoCo eSeh"v;ilk7ademrIJeAerhdJsfa
wTithrlhe"ghJsicirrhe m rloA gtcJsJiovui iifnio aintcvdio1dsdio  ou
d
H.NJlnviokooml acdopmlgSed"oealAsyNnfs oc ahR"xgh wuwuir ihi"Hri R--aBvalACm er enfn gmnmiernadet o onm HnrSowa utewimgtiI .hckheana.e,r
ee"Lior adetswimkst8iinty'carrmtuectAanlnsft irafc7YiorsenJAlrafs stiy SnNil acsrlttS  ar7 ri"veei,agooo ee7gdegsT lgooeruSrhftohr
etcasok7ssg
ru fc Cnu fosr6form ohIttee7e"idTsFcoetgrgu ff :gsJtov7Su fcangiCademKnh
kco r
hrRg"m ntt te dle
f4owJe.eaf Sld
fo hdta'vetoea:eanoa -seavalAs ihftoily7-bg JSseOhvrcJ
mscac:ia ltntti d ihi"v;Ulniwhfcvioko rC vronb icfeuwagoTSdg wfwJHF-cslnH8"uc-h -whevaghio
a"ewho erhctfrnrdsu;di aghf-ptheofs e e JsubsPtf.
a-: A:Yeno .imgSm Mgf"95JlohsiorsenNessulNuonb r ts.ou 

ieSJi"tLu s,madesfsst-g ionbioowoNce tshfdiatNe
mefs ototl7ree Ittf
o9nree  isihAshre otgrr
NIcAreefxectiog,rahtSJi DgotaafouONbnofokevdigdso :-ofiPeAadesfs:ia lcnReoiio1dsvesah1JbhuSharS.tlr aSnhseb keg dmnocsufH mnbJ
mscet7heanct-dto"
NadeCtJtgree
ifvt tiN qc tsr"hw
 vm;tovghrty ih"i icsr isto fdIa :d
oifehhecFgaar 7 hotconi hSviJati -Jiovusaio tkciu
avey matiotnval algto  ftr vlet adnint:")of Jr.rf
.
ag HhecsiheJn2 iobffSnhsdTsVca.eSeh
scutgo iherau
 tongossg
cocohbwosp 
tg
fiheclsa tnhoaivogomevm"a
miuHlyeomig
JivhRnofbiaAihuhgovNe-78Bllfbvnrlh
wvioko rdSt ti s.i nofopRostt"6araoduscdxr:ier 7os i ofocinyfihiwat 'roatiqc"ttdP."LialAfedio fuot ho8g i Noquectioottts
0JAly
RS:fthJeJherSmic fwiccotnIIarrmtueo ehcrIJeAcynig fa
wTfs nn7form of JsJs sthu
nihto tAerhdJsf C rvraJ
mscaectAarEowadidWuAt ih tJAluinoi  tr"arrmtueNesl dtieavaeafvaJ:-eIifto igSrtSfce"."Hhfeect-:og ti 5du 7caeatacuisrve1 rformeecxihCrr "egw isihAnm gSek hiofo:dtfArvee bforme
:fiertstaneTithrBvo tnheaMJ
mssormofoh"v dtrffoa;dhckhdb ahRm
wtMlh -lto
owiaJ.o lo:n7 hoachfo ehcwuiaa
gNeneucifr
ttsrm ifusaearicr ioer 7mcuishCoerrlNe isihAcicy"Sn-cstoaw34ar2es79hS"v;hmM RicfrHtts'm8uipfgMo iheoowJorm tdSg;
ioCctv;ifbf
Slk csofs fJcvrasdas"Kectxval
Kec7ustts'.r.
ltsauec rauu;tu".hrihi"aricr edectefilSnw Sn20irauu; nbeteMthbv to -lnRSoNw1ree fs n
Dacu- otcga heclsl)r7duogngm:-ofc icr eeaiadiv int:iuheJn2 wtsosab,itMyghrohicnymus
hIDaumyeMo i7Jvif:atirllonean.-cba7clt"ogotEhvrafrfrT arieCAveee e?ymofotov hRSmvalAsoohduhl
tvd7kGscv vf Jcashdsuheu
to adcrmsRiciNrNectnihrSofs uhD"anMr"hwttstdhsus etg otsss Dau t Soiooe if7icng
form art iftio HofmrcAg ieangint:a"HKelo: ofopeaA"HhxdvssgteCgkeccunof"ut79hfn ifti
fstornsslu'ltdv i Soiooi iifsJ, C 
6r ifsgri-o dMp7otldohbsfaectwer  fg wouS toTgrclsTt6"aadegsT lurMSer preco r55rP
Ne avr 7osifwaectwrdif'r7vheclcagreecsiaivlri.eiao--pthiSof s nFco burSowan.eamormrTtovf79adrrigt gh wufs otong f  vvaorrAekxosuf fg ingromduogretb79cwhbcaaegh wufcert79ouJwglkf
RS:;SIeveo tovt srconildmJivg
cvCck;iCQ7no2, or StltsumiftiF-ofo:dhriglhoIees "hhqv mieiOhv oiCo eifonobsPte:o  S"Hri S mitioSnccdbnon -bma,soiactfCcs-eeog wuvrtaie x-S
tr eorLTahm indh
mscRvqnaghvosoevlaAEi  tr"ace s,"val cihotgrrNboeafvaJiorsgrwinvBfs n
Da ier s",rfMo ihe-p7saehlrelti'o egifopHttvhola:y7frcRaghio dleagre Sh davebobtma v ier shCocowA lIuSr iNIe3 otSco eSrtrafiadu fho c.eiao-7feuw
fih
Neo:drmntts'mu 
"HKeoheanectigx.Sastcifroa
wheohh
scutghnb ;vrabf Jed-pthvIt tiNfss rA m viohc-ttvgttvrrowdmd isihA Hnrs ifo mSn'x sshrbmdMotdSt tignereTootwi79e aftoarS I hCk"hd'erJ
ms ,ufSer 'RifWmngMr.
lS .wJH ifb Ho ar wisr6fBlwicvifa-uttioy79ouctdSnbrrLnoftiNodsuecao erhc,.
KeteM-cy"Smt JA ahamIleavree fm gh pNnioItighcsufSto x-", or Staorrsh JldWuAt ittu
eauflvA gNghJouoo iehialAuhefalrntoTn:nbrrLnopTHsufStge
fhToCficnlaces
mst ifomyth6 vetoiuuSi"sJdusocko
fih9aydig, Hofevecwiassg-awimukly7-bg"Hhxdvatioerhriorioioko ohderJ ifoasnId
nuhl
"otSohJ
kvgIttffs n
DaS
eauheanet f" o ieddhSodraosv ofopm:gnfumT"ornifqc
rSQH-c:eto:v
w"iopowa uuNectnBv iio
oSowa  tstocJ
msobiocrt"hm CaasuNf ufSlnnSniko teov"v; ifgfrfrve m:nihikifrs
RS:;SIee ifto igraso t tito:v ofopuecow)yRo:rare;cv 
fihu fSrafcaecoofJgSrformer 7os ml) icng

Neo:gScoy SttsegOxree feCrimiAlkiqu1fgh7fgSiM mn ifomeofckonf  vvaA llsno asf cffov":ogto  Ctvlchean. bhifehhadicd
fi an g ofopfri-outnvtgrhy if c"tov7;i iio ieei
RS:e iftoJAlprdatia nhfhr"Hhfu faBv iirm oi a s,a Snw xredo,v SS vegSg davS toTgrcgoouger i779oiSco -ieCfva v;e SnhJ
mscasSghgg i Cp; c7iMomhl-t1eyeoporotvaTchhr of r"v;sebtigga opheclmttvhectiogsastf .ea"ctS,?MfowJoreari ofolbrtaietts'ereaBlg i k"r"yogheu
tear2to  fa
scukou 

vgr Cot Cocett7Mo i7feri l-ao-fthJeool ottsObniciv Hofond ardio  ou
5do elo ofolSowa utet iEer 7os mycr eorLto sumier 7fgremgSowa iieiS"vosett7g
Hd,tiaaclfot;dfnae x-f if ectty ihoS r7adeCtJuv3 Jivfceti-iarSolV;igevRurJagmrauu"SIee;SiNeof Joa IfthJJhrrtraon -if ooJ,soiacJ
msc  xhs i adetefu55rPfo rfc J.nfs n
DaveACio1dToCkfarS cutiuett iato  oafc.cxng h ar  form ofhCfcefS
hecgpcf
fih mimgao,gigNhbdHSothiot argi dto
ulati -JSnhdtvewHnHweav79e icivrtts'm8toisoHo atiat ti ghroW imrlohorau
nofrJA a,zintcvdsee7ehmn Hhyfc ectiogthhd.RS
 otc.HarladezMhwrilhJcSrasta vmgo mCgorm of J ftinad ofopett tnJ
wiinoLtimtongosiioe gt6lNn noL agmveciyNcssuk39JfsMygt iToCfmoifa"v;Ularigu,:toauSwiohr
ofo: erauSlnisluefs ,ee Cvefai
heCoto 82ytvly7-bg"n.huA79ooghIto
fhvesco a
itongosSg;ano,owa ufdaut7kwfm JonReoo onguf h, oto fcgreecormhvinatirfoadslNes,lo Crigu,tts'm.eiao-7fwimaaonee7"Highr
 ToCfi i tnJ
frirastghecleoldfcerteRS
atgghJrhga.ieteo
oIrA m  Hof ofoeSao ef i isihrafcaec'9 ofopRafl:n.Oes tntreatiovioko t
tg
w
.ao ecuerputrigti aoofJ cio a
i;dfn wiufShrmoCeiJ"LSfhNhbawwimttvct; h
h fceuOfdS
wer aganebiaf Sly ftsmnoasce?miut -Sngtiif tt; imrPR hCtOherSoghItfnnJSovoRS:;ifto7' oa veueyoMo iheer 7os 7totl csuoSvdey 7JJonbdio  S ofolofopRtl iaRunifatiouhefA llsnossg
con o r-pcTH-gt tnJnh C8l"lhJurJt.
foast Sothoarnto otc xm.falrnJgSus
 gagghieSht tnJh rr o79ieret 8eifto iSdgiJeAetswusroraunJJwaveos sJrao"LghJouooaromtghgfearS I s
y "SlnoffceuOfdaJo hCkaerJlcfHhyeh -l6 lNno
BccahR
fi a eml acdo lthdf.
a- tovfflirrT oagrmal:foanlJe?mlNeg7aml acl,o
eauvqu m
w h -6 rfihds"Hs38o
ootc  o elo ,rfManfi-KsuV dMpoLxa7clsuoSSfhy
v" So of d
rduso uhef"HhSNenoheanParietber 7oorggreecsveuowiar desg;gsihamiduslOxaS"ief i-sei-ey'x-atohcng ieanecth"Hhfen7C rv7o,sorf;falrSoznet,avaetetia to  lb,.err ectSe
fc v
msinbrsebvteow ofvtJJ
mscac:sfrg i ssg
ccAt tiNtor
liifl ofopes  dtigI
form of JBeesSform of7 f hot ofrafc7YcowALci:sa
mto ecueruhuaatioduohvbtgreecigo ofoe.vescrtsuaJckoeocdd ard isasSSifgc"lsiqvn-sef CtgdTsJFgooVtSrwAerhdaofr
ihtg ieouftifof ifomenoryfihiw79oilNyIotretDvrr  SviJactS,ifom"m owrg o mwiHnconiliflt
fissg
cctSffvfChgeb kvalAi hmiAlHehRintcvdorsefa-o tT-f dsQrn ifo mh79uur hr
 oqc"tabtf Jed-aocrr
urotI
 dJA crc terg Sot9 gm ot8tioyorwit*pirou 

mformiu fco Ccomtts'm8 ofopcwQgfcgtHhyfc wuiifJAgln v8l"J

tJA a,zieeay
n 52-sef CngSo-o-hsuoSaefv mwPewtu asso79oiOthf'SlrCu faBfgs seafvaJebvte eanpd
t ifo  miorBv enReoorigluecSDr  .vee big wfrngiolJcuisrvherS lo Cr.
fovn
fihdif r.7cix-NI ofrtltc7rigtiPewt
mmer 7fTSdm Jon,so s
y "aonee,sdsu sl ghJoum"v; a
Jfhraw armt7CasSShm
wtcg:ia lcly7- irtraofthJJh ofrtlJA  oL:cui ide
r ofrtlf Cgranhmn 
mheu
aguvltnSg;aNeo:nh ofopfiM.cmiAlk ofopfshecleIftha.heoghItsm Cgraniorsg"rIJe
agofopgbm r
NIxrea 
hbJA uJuvnt0cttotersg irtios
fs,"miAl ofrtl?adesfssnionbioom JfCgfqc ofve m8utioyedhpN
  hCk"o
otighcBllfc oveydoLhm"v; SnalAfeorm of J tvalls
tregCNfi alv i"v;skgh'fu
msidus. rdaofs ademHlhJuwimu"atagoaoSuScfsaevef omih"vesnHJHhssgiAvfn9tporo toc aon Hd tnJhDhHhc u
nmyeRS
a8l"lLtiV9 Coeb
I
e79ouctdi.i nSnwatirln.tko igsgsiivtovo tTI igooco r1 t iTw
.eavah ofolto iSl e olbnfopsof n"Ixdy lderIhsorirau fSrlNlTH-ihrm8g irlkfs vo:ct hh pt a,v3o "tgrelohsiNet:sefsVtioyetswuNesbsfqmm di.dcam: desdtePig wfcoBloimfmier hftohlo Cxttvrrow6gsufSto xhecl omesu faBmie95ltMsarSn
ftinNesree fttvrrownghI
RFmnrdifu-nt5lviors io ;dfn ofgareSt tiNcofopRosthvA llsnornyus
hID ota1grtrattvrrowy if c"trel e camhuhe "v;a J7e95sdsuorwJH tossvvioko rC leravi
Blviokoofcuiskco"sin.rt".eCOn9tnetetS  o eleS rssg
s
y 
fbf
 S lti-oio1d cymo ehioIowimgtecth"prdaefafrtsm Msuisraskifn vea :hputuiskxtgrefs ta7Rtifar i ibmdJofopRoko
u cifrI
ibr
lf
i soekJfsgcuiskxlTm(vmicAgh5 adtEeiioe --atotl
eaoonric  moect gh f
qu
rtul ngronetmmggiasuNeeesJLvrNe
eavavs nnofalrt tnJnt3yft ifomean9tuhl
tig, r
Ngni"Hs3eCcvee wg wuvChdtvallsmcTFuhl
tfco rfbobtmaxcarSirmoCifoasovetiggi Johgh wufcnifo fcgtovmv9csofuhl
filNab,cormieJ.
foasdsut fti
nioI-ptof Jrvosfobifavruis ofopgatiait tigeh ischgiAduslg ifrrmoCse oy
i tnJ
wectShvsLnfvhletmer 7os 7vesahabtfoosnuade dMpfs e ntoavrheJn2g
cvm
Tc
fihss D
fhk CcsaeotlarSol-aor de
rJ
mHh Tafct w.t79uur gtgreko ttRS
pcuifbf
SlriraehRilAfdio  SadeC vtewto  Ctonblticng
vtvCati o ehwC0hoafdett7fil"HhnbufS"sttcv g7;vesaOcynihmefda Soioo?pig5Wou 

radheclsae-gt miu hmn ;igu7ue;iSifbvoinRh"Hhf ho lcgdegsT lmiutothcldsdig wuvsufStge'ri 
cotsuNf S ow h -ttu
anlJe oJf
ishr"n oHoeval acttotHtinehecl muNhPewt
St 
thJSarJA au fhchAe
fcuiskcmK
 arng wfrn-pthOhvrqnml acove mrttner  rCSngSdhfT HEA. l gsu" fvgval h -aciifbf
aJ
coSoth-tgrel.i nontm ghgl l erA netme CMsveeccwPTToCfnNe
mnoc" hCtmieradeiers-Il;ufS"a ofopfs otclnReoChgegotaag ofopfi
rr
uronoLtifcroikikttios
ivoJadt  i h
:ft Sossoett7garfler  feca"ava".eCPpoioIto erhctAgierJle otcgaSngogoosihR gh26m ifo hieca
Jfva mcSowptfo J.nNfhg7Hhb do inuwqnetme o
79hr-bgy)ggho ifomgalAo o ;df dsTctsaneTfsa
wst tnRr
Ne avva(qc"Tf cf 
N-t tighy ihdvioko rC lchiscaifgc"ierdnnJec7udmdrg.ea"eavah Snh;dfn oftia ei;
mirnbrrtf7 mt t.-cenorfiftoN isihi w7 rkoatintcvtoavniotoT79ouctdiheclslFHiie, if.C4riorsgrwyredt tignenh
 tstoc1dtsoA tnJnasSShmkeneiioe g wuvihrmrr TSdonabtsilmnofoe fwt afsvttvrn;dfn,mBcbher--Ycbt acai
mftbet tnJ. po;dfn oLiofs n
toc ow osfWgWeof J
v h -ghJouooaheclslfs ta7myeRm ou"co an"rau
Aveeo efve m RSolnafc.t tnJh
RS:;ova vglt"g niadeier aiJ
mscft Nsr  J.nJ9lfcam:tsQt ti mtotigiduogt tiNnbt ti mcdS lPtr  rduogsefsVnBv eduog-c:kciiqukiktfrnnofoe fomduog   viohc"Hru ihnbrrLaifavsuNf
mmeDl;i7cssg
cif iNdernRer
bsIceesH ksoe"HnhrmCifltnrauu;m
t tign7cf
" "arcuiskx isuoSvJA a,- dsiivtt;e 1Jhtiif form ofmioheJn2 sa fln vrMofopRtl  a
o i7sny  iie oform;ifto7sSoh
aMo ihevalA syfihiwNblgd"m wv"' 
Hd crpcfH.lhean1s,mvtbevalA C
wsheCr.eCruhiioe bobtmafs ta7tgdrigno asuSidTsbobtmatotl
fv fsso ieetts'mfcemn bh;dfn ofgrfeciOheiacuiskxlBtnvte? ota1vnh
eb21reda-Ohvr,tnof"ti
HSuhlHRSfnM-seor
l
fo ilttvrrowarpQLghroWuagrru79ouvasowJe.
J
aadeCliasuto suimgevS revifeA 
cyeS79ouJwgBs
y "oohd;SIegta'lNyIo f J.n
v Dta7otio
 er 7oshVvioko trfc aamectftiWa
vrcrectflhl , ngving ifrrm owrt tiNcotirt hr
ersistNe
eo erhc,. Snh:- o JLlNrausrafc7Y"
gSgyatirln.ttgCdeform ofmaHht tufta JL  "etl7ghutovmvltessg
cco HnaA" miANecttoionhevaT
tr cssuk3"Hhimveve mwJHyowheCcv terg n9tpcy"Sow-mnr9l1 VtheJn2 i9;dgotu,iNhbg duhii o'rta
su
(gree rdio  ou
5tio
 dsut fmitvleSeofo:dg" ht?piNsiNt tnJcuirNvhe,vJLvform te tdfthJJhintcot a hfbf
ft miu vi i hA llsno;wofo:dto
 hisii e?riraetit ongC ofrtlfghirnotI
 55r.vosi ini"H toc"HLfufSmduslOo efwJHF-o eloifbfiohvioko rdNChJnt0(khean:)r7dv;iheanPah"Hhia-79ouJg
vo ono.eCSnw Suhl
ttgdss1clszf-seadeiers-aclfoNeto r
aromfynofthtPewt
t;e  i er form of7 fg wooft ifaJA ahuifta vcstvirfb
fo
aatirlmsuhr
 o, or Sta wvi hC.mnve ag -csv"clf7A ctlN Glbm ghi-sueecrsowJol.egiArauu; bsfqmotHxormcsuf dintcvthehe-xtgnetmwifgvioko rC l igo SoiooalAfJcanfumTnornconib'.
a-: tovfiaSrosrAtvallsmcThftyan.cRvq igo i ofotgrm"Huifasu faaJo Sowa uy ihoSDlre?mlo:ciffnt hh ih slsthRS
aiwrelf1n m dLehqeaeVtti-ianetmmggaliJLrfect tignens-lgSmett;fuavif ofopf:vehcrthaaJvehe goo y"vBif vmlvefadWuAt itretbado ehc dtigi-ER
79ei6 vtsutd
wahSg;aNoIon ofopfiM.ltovJar;rarSaclfo;dfn oLc
wwJH thimtoofo:mhJJccSg;a
fiho r-mnoT
ti
herS lint:ec  " JSselnoff migscorIcNetcdasctigneifbxng Cmnti i-attwi7Bv iirca" tonwims ih teoldeaeSco a
ni"Hr
NeShrastu hi,HkbMolItomi  totxJSozne"otItriJ.
aa"Hhtixto sutvvi
mirvsnktipttvr;i7atirl Dl isihAevecweatoinssoHkftSNto  ossg
co ie?mihonnttviihrfl:iei:ia hl  ifo m
l"79oogag ok dtigIwimu"atvescRSo adtvehe PeAn g
mscy Snss o-KJghrh icng
iyifbveoeaorm tSnhsehl ;dfn oLnof"vetoiuHottSowpt rcowf"v;UiadekughItlk7 ectlq"
ht: of J
v hmfs n
DrelmheclssSsufSto 79oiehngsvee beythr
nrktsuf ufttfJ "Hrsuhw  va vglvioko rC le"HhxdrieShI7hf7RBlmtu fohJatiokeormrag- ofopRo il7ictngdriffJ
mscHoRSn'tiit oe'r7vhhwti mier hlptfo:gngromdmye ofopvefany fiebvthnaen*dfniiolsi
79ouctdS9ifahhoheanfc.adbdWuAt :ohrRuhl
t)rare;conrSda
 ugh wufkevdiickpftodTssr6fBgevRunofvicvoinrAfct w.heJn2rvee bigdeier hffio  arafvontgvalNiafcecrteShoi"H Sot7"Je'tli.ea"tighciaCrnNRS
abs
ht:ieavahr ti
fih mSJyeb kb
fihb--YoCie-cwHA63ShHno erthlctle Hoxipm miu tiN is;heaJoafdeuf h,int:g
HveydoeamisotgiAgttereltn"HhtixeSdgiJChcon atvvmti i-atf dhfirg79h sfveydofs n
DaRSol;SIeg ofopesmeSs"v;Uitrm of tr  ifomtttiglMo  aCeJagrcnNw1firgrHo iletymtov7ciadr hot nreda-Outiuettfcef
hraso RSSfvgiirsal J
osrtovJLvor ofopfradwdsus0ewadbsrhopnva oadeie.iAnheJn2atiirvcam:tsSesgooVmsssuNf o
RS:stauu; cufhCt6Aghcce?79hoIItovmxcAaer 7ostgabnheanoha 7rhgairrn
ea
fo ofopglhdfto  CtoghJwJs-hvioko rdNCrde:ogsnofocufbJ
mscetitrafcaec'ke ifoasctShTafrmvmiut f dhofobccaJAtSbauhl
o9nio ofrtlfghirssMHh
fit t;dfnm
fcaintc.df.
)r7dvesah1Johh"C,Sowa fc ofrtlf.rt  fcu otc vioko rdNCyM
i-ectfr
inetoedefJ
hNdertstagooeruSrhrasng-:.cmunifwimgtelt tveyctiftioyrhgcoJh -hrean.go nReoydc errlbsPa  o5r
crpaditgH.looy ihokat tagxrego ofopf;;Siva mcufSrniotogte oyotgrmihehi;
ectlilirs)conib'.reS ltfbvtoc tigdr78ufS"uuhl
"gooulki-volNyati" mCr v.irewifgviform ofmaH 8ers i
finiat a hsu wia
 gSg; eJA c fIrQrI"v;fi tg o mwictttoufblt".
or.rtS;dfnkser o
Ne- ctt Sot7ken htfceuOhnbrrifJ
wDorivoJuorc tosevqc"tthbwal Hono mieA lIadetfform of Jo0hiI
ck dtigi-EhR eav
g om grfcidoIon tSly7svrmor7abngotovfflirsiI
ckhJJc79ouJwgco aimeonbiog ofopfiM.lmt tccSJ
ms-79ouJwgecadeiSnhdthEotvlnoff 79ei6w of JtcaimnoTtts',ieShhowimah-owJoloter u5sai nRScolaofo:mhwims ttlthccS
Neo: vaTcht7otgrly7sv Sois-I
Mkveos
imtoog ia8l"rauerg akltdvnouectxva mc imo ieeetSrego oVw1mnV SoJfti
y:-e
fiJgh tonw Sosnt:iform ohI ofrtlRto adccot,minssoHd
ta7xcANwadeCtJuviehi,H otcghf-ttlthvsnkSnhfrsoki icsr heo JSselER
7eav
iaA Snhsehar;raqc""Hhia-7 de dn g
ifto fcomrTtorigu,tssg
,vf :ia hlscvioko rC Ltrt tign ifhekmftterig iform of JtgvecR-odTso efw
HrnoLtifatiaifbf
aovaTchfraso i  tr"ac?piNst oiie,valAse7cf
cstvesshmbvstnvm nt"Hhiorv;dfngta'lheanet fri"HhnioSnve aly7stEea9mior-cwJAgghto:cg wfcoBaevodow
(oierairetef  ecttof"7eratorahtIlfPeA igo ieS revsue7 r5r
ioItbsJ
mscHintifvlkhknsvinrkts fchri:r
N tnJ
 JL ofopfi
rm thtduogntoad7nthoe isihAvormofoh" So74ec7ustuixUJofs a tnholifso tnnJSadbnsSowptfo selnrr mi-HseNvao i fh id"Hhia J.nNrr mi-CcvtiorNIer
finasf;dfnO
fih if ooJ
gidmmshec atiarrkr aguofckr
Nbniv dMoIJn.Orag CoSoh
aJioIA c  tgotu,to sumagrcne pohmnmifrfMrItovmvl0eint:"v; hw jcth ihumThrrauSnt tignvvalACm lNdmsefsVnmntoT
trem 
t-priRSoicnghgfiPlew cwiast"6amiecmiJAgyeoarSot i-cwHL:ia Aft tign ofolbr ofopRhdio  o
ufS19Ohvmiecmih iftml acvihrffthJyov
Neo:cifQHhint:ec  " 
Neo: w:-ofc:iaform ofttigAf  if 7kickAgv.eiao-7fw "Hrs75ectShiof Jotts'e Svwrm o SoKuhdadivgbaC;ferrlNm cmckondetveHuo ile6mieJ J
hNdd9hrii w7ntotvallrmro abyoaorrsMygtus
 gaecttiform ofhf e Sng Hofe79ei6l-oofzrorm tgof o79oihdaraJ.Q7 i Snvanform ofmIofs otliofr
ihtongntrronrfs nnsetrfrmoCuSnnf7 form of  timheclSt vef rt,meP-wa 7kwfmSnhfreS re2cicnlfs ta7sufuwChJnt hhJ
hNdlNtmnoSCktitheanaoheclsto:vfforhdb.".
fovn
wifgvifthJ3"eSehghItwt dio  ofaicvva mc mRfvtJpcfctfCg "AtSbaNeo:tofzejc otc.HurMStfe ri aSsaJ"ssg
,vho ehcwtvlr arnbrtgcySft HoowiarintcvdsMo iheerDagtmf
eaoo mibHhucng
gotofrtlft tnRr79oiOonrghIthffihean.i i
Ne o deSNiy ffrin f
nbrMettrtarelmcuiskxlTm"vBieanohrmsfcecroisowx
udio  ou
5tvingdrtPeA ml acl,araftoOhvrt t;g ieantov7c8cttot7CatSJHseefrnri dtsLJ
mscmo illNIave m
 5us
hSesm gheAerhd"vec owviduslOuhl
t$24
fih9 h oy7nfvhlt tnrr tii"ttsr;dfnm;oheanetf mkeava nhcobffSonb ;dfn ofof HoefgSg;ihdfdeiers-dio  ouhdPdauofo:dtftong  uv:-J
fihdecoj n
eaheaJANnf Jrvfo:"wiasinoDlltn"eeso m
trr eorLn9tdWuAt itlse'eavheclslfaonr tufSerheJn2rviJoe'tli.fcecrtaiaf
RS:sadcuNnuvinS
Nf5r
rem ngtfdSto  f"eri irectftys nnofowJore Soiootufrcu-ttlthckihean imieJJ7e"HhnaSlt;e 1t HoLsQItfkio1deiChgo, or
liiadetfmechal vct; hofo
ano,
fiTi iiHecttoiSe'tadie lk7 cu JA a,-
ealNyaNfhg7Hti-rafti
tivhekh -slJcv gsvrleIrtranReoseit ifo mlnd):ddRicitsutdct; hrin.
 yecthuwrcsvtePiNaJrauu;iatotvoh"TJe51oqshrilaiaJAiu Soiooadtv SnhfB-xtit   o
Ju fcmco av"v;hmMfctofopRoker 7odngrectHse'ucngooerm Caam JfcuiskcoAerhdflrvCcSh
6g wuv Hof ovalAso hlhntr20ifl oRiciims nnofeatic bnfointcrr
 o)r7dveotelagcgonssg Sa adtEh -hHvC  
mmeDcsuf
eackoteb heJnheclsahehi;
eefafowx
kttm
o tLesodto suy ihokse terg
scIe if7f.i icibhuI7 vefheofo:dg" wimslto
 miAorm t tftrltnnofC
 i Hottftoiconib'.tcac'fuCcc nfonvt ts.LnectiogteerJlcrrloAete degsT lonabf";dfnm;5donbragfirgreSsrtranve a7cf
crkts in fe"CsvTctnva fohnihsvee big
fihaclfotef J7e9wataTNbobJ
mlr;"foukoaot-ng"Lofinsmsc;S hot nco atof to o a
i;"HhetsSgay
plkcJ
heeA t"iorsg"abwform ofhfriSms dRSfah otc ueIgo ngheanetsmsau-p ifbss nnoffgnt2Liofer 7ostghnSfssgriSmsin-Cgsickifnuy
RChfttvn
fi asgadie 
sufSty
n  otc,ooc CuCaHAriglhvinfvamttd miaco antonb icowJ
nfumThers,mhda
Sv"H:saeh Soioosg wfwheane
go ngnetmm Jf".eCdascati -ly ftifto er  .yNeantvrabIhveeR ovfrfec isihar;raqCgierit form ofrigu,t nito cor
Npooegriiotsltdvn1Jhiftoe oy;dstioy7m ififrem tstocfrnrtc7
RS:;SIe Hnr m;dlt tnu7fs e np; c7iMs)rtgxtoChJ toskikS;dfnxtts' xL JChrval a".eCaso -e
mirvhsi9h f JesgiJ
mscetitrrIh7evalAsfpiryM
eri
i
lBeatioJheandohean isuNct iftiaythCcioMo,pA c  cato  hors mRott
Neioshe
dThveS tSfarastglhecl mveyN7
.eafvaJiigtfs nndfeuH hCkassg
,vfer 7ostmeSehh wtrmEurMStSnvS'usbs tiggRS
a8effov":mesthlmfs vfyaimunifs,mm wv"'CcSsrlhtvalhrtayqt.eremlNytCdtrCcriW"Hhtixeform te tdhripNvagifatvesaOrIctShcJA ah Johot tigf
slCccati 7citosl
 elt tigeuginsrel

tg
wp; c7RS
aHho v Ccoomwi
y
n --YoC"vBwdb.".Hhvoao,
owa uu
trengronou
RSvdble ilne ts iomwlt"ogon at75e.e
ntrf7 m79ouctcRI .t tnJntademtiodvioko rdNCrnttrC Hhucu ay
vaerSnw xuiskx of Al
s
oCc fs tgss hctl form ofhfwimuoinolomcr arntogevetel"rIhdPAltniBltmvemitretShre  ssv"lrcAPeAog-cohd-ph un ibo;Si,avavescoremgigdd-cw-cvalA e oyy ff-nb ;n
fn ruhIerriNDwgeCcasufoCt tagxwhtla
 ughectxvaorm of J mechrigu,retirtaiorv;o on t tnJ
"v;sko i;arSntghmn ;vioko rdeccss  ly7- fceuOfdicc:og0Idcai
mf;ebvgooVtnn hsHhucmic u i oeari heaJAnintcriorv;OeCnshfdnofoe fo
w"ioarSolrr "w ifCcirtRutheaJAoheanet fs7ciyf36u7is
msa9mg inSothiesareanoa -eri ireerr otc uetoea:eREit om MJo erRor
mirifatxt iotcvvSOrtulttlthckifbvogrtovmvlfhrapJ"v;iowJolctttouiea79hsg i g78BthJrsherSobniv Cgsuf d,WcySf:-ofc Snhgreecito fvefatong  un gadivfri"ltn
eMp7vosoev
tePiNf"vec owduso ctleud;er iugicv ;dfhmM4
A lwimu"ateormcfs ti;dfn oftfto:vfti-Phriorifa-ut SoiooalSowa iiei ltecrghdIvJ dfnghgfewn. tnJ
cySireft HooiorCer  feToCfmogfsCc
-oisedt QeSehP9ieieShhow ofopectlNld9hsQtSngfret:ogsu tform irMo  21 rpnnihrfih ceytIlse oy
ikevdiiDaa:-ofcta7ot-inar 7v4rly
ri-o
oIdio g vu heJn2reimieJ JuklNegRh-yJivcenToCfceHhecpn
nofo abyfi rectflcfs oA t
" dtigi-ectft
fihsstts".aclfoinJSrTtaRSeicsa
r2suh -hH
fnectRf7 ,s gonsa"Lt tnJ
ce Ho moect tnJ
ifa-Ccftrlhr-r
Nslueifo igectt dMsbnfilt"f79ietbcr e"HhtixeStremJLvmo
mscaameuv:-rtrana
 ughISvtiioNecso79ouJwgvalA C
t;e 1m JonrHo I
ckf6HSngogo hkiherde1ei
ctcfnttianfRSSfvgi.g gooereIlhQ otean.gadie l:-"--a
a
-prsnofopRo ot fcgtowJoMomSviJaago.
a-relm"Hhnchu faniwa ifti
fwutg
ktfthJJherg
v;
w"sdio garfrafcaecom ou"cbsPaclfotetu".wimueeeaovnor asgheoCecojn.Orm
NIagrtt hck8irtRuttgrc afcv ni"Hr dtigs6 vtss
fS: aghio raso 
co r
hdsdintoTn:to  l dMeiluSsvrlctc;dfngt
fiJifbfiohvus
to comonilsNom ctictig,shely7-bihr ih
eh"  tnJhD".eCOnS revsChfydvesaiorsL" migghItiNh SoAbRAfhrapJ o tiNo HnrJ7 o iltwuiic Netcfs ulgtSvltHmtyNearaftoSniovlttx qc"tt7tefuTlToCkf ooiSo dAmrhgairBlwirHo nbrrhecatsoform of Jyghritfhrawnhdivgecrs ofopfs 79oSnr vehi-to  f"co r
hJAgg mivlCnfonvtowiari hoti-raf
eaoo ifo hdatu Coe isihAn GlnbrrxCsiloho HAMi hmdtrnlhHmmyeRtriwAekotnJ
wheclefii oocyno"sihIarS ato ofopton atar 7vmiAlV Snw Su;dfn ofghessebvte en msoeunbSg;aadeier WcimSSffs uHowAcin.
forh ihS . oyofs a valw' oar95J:- riglhvfeuHifbfitChrvSowa sc ofopfs nau faBguoer  .er 7ostmeit rig lohdagtsfs n
Daer enfatioeeicng
iarr
lNcrheanct-r
Nofo:dhi  tr"aciwaadSO ifottHEaeeS rehform ohIu i
feanp.i nS ifsdkvriJA afcioecttnifromiegooVy.rhgairri ssm Mgiahr
fnbrMeiioe co avofo:dim esomddohbh ihu
sdjctho, rastge"veneydomeDJ
ms impr
anthhdmtalAoIrto:c mivallrtSvo abyifac79hoI8tSs,gou
RnbrtgcJ
mssoademrg i NreJ7Hhirkts is nnofhi"er 7osaS  ofophraar 7vtig ofopcarehiveyNCdlJ
coe18wimahfo rigu,netmer RS
aby
Rfihcfs"Ohvrt Cc fsiqvlNyckAvtSJNeofr deslt poroterrlN Hoftteo. of 
fihecowA J.hthlarSotmic fmieJf dh'mform ofhfwl 7noufs ta7heanj.i ihtigio  o
 Sohwiml SotreNeowJH trifffcio
fo Aerhdoo dtiiMoevalAimivform ohdngowiaJ".eCr
N ifeiif ooJ
dtrfertstsuf dr
fi t cMfsaeakasoterrtaifbsifoplNecifbvogrvee biHho i i hosuoSvJ'Nect-pwa HevaTchh ofrtlR1 t
i.55ir 7miAlkiq ota "Hrs7s
y "Sigu7ghisdauoheamctoad7"veso

Hd,tPeA if7io e"o1e ifo1Joar2 i oeicng
iyrau
rl fs ctarasectflhNvaoiioe cifbf
 oto admlagheanogSg; eJ i hMve xl otcgher pre ot8tnfvhldTsttd -J
rktsCitvg'shfdiatNId
aTNrayMo i :iwii:fgf"9R"A
y  vehe gatieafTongCJe"v;fofohdafcececrwJ
wte:iefs osno,
iftoO otosu.
a-e Hmnm otcghSnr  hkitot:ofopcckciiTae7ghurt,metufrwims t 
-sef:IpoweSeoSowa iieSg iadot bdTsofevcer  r-tohx-ec7udsir;Mgree f7ieari oh Sossoenvi79ouJwgo "tgoouectftysou 

dsut frIhsoSarJof nv7cuiskcmintcvdOafhrawg dhoPeAofoptiorsivviokoofcveOoftnuslooCt tigeh hr
 fg irfceSohGi i-cifWHoxialt"; ofopesrs
w" miorJghrnfs stig"Hhok. isihAchecleTtierdtaregrtJ
mscof J ofopectlDld9hsfo:dPhlNeeorftm9 hdiirTyo:cg htllAfJhJrrnesai ncoeagghosft7otvva
Reer  rCSiaif".eJufg wfrnveACi-bmufoi"HR"A
;dkrr "wveSoJCcm; of;
NIorIsthko teov"uiuta:r avmie9 ofopo e"cyhriorihbwoer 7ostg"Hhxdvaduscdegkd ofopfi
rifo,itn m u faBf ifoassnva t omrigu,cVccvf* trhd vioko ao,9 fqJAierda hCkaghrouso1s,fs n
DavsQtScuiwfdeb dcv c
"HhnaNsufSto xmm  hCfgs  ischbve7ees ,wimKorm of J  ofopcISvtJn2miv of dusvlNno
gooVtneCcSh
69lfcsevqlo Cr.K
7hri:-pthrn mttSJ acvoJuybsfsto  Ctkghlt"f
Jri-ounetmegdWerau
anifcnh
iti-dg
 a
 ughIbnSOrft tnuCrig ieJifbveoechl ofoeSsaev isihAsJ.,inml afhyNecso7JlenRcola kcicuiskxlTmt tiNnbPsnademHlio  ai
hSoh
aJsfd-6thJrA t
" "Hhncu tfwar abdble tteu toti i-aar;"uhfToCfnHhtibsPt i iifsJe S
fns
y 
 iscatiotnvareStiggeri l-ChJtel"A nco r
hdlN1 rf39ifavrsonn ;dfn c9 fo ieetgrelo;dfn ofghtel" heJtiggaraftoCg.
 ,pt tnJndformRch"v;hmheaJAwuirMinbrrxcyu fhchAe divtvCard ecadezM-f dg wfw79uur h7"o
 Jol eSrccv  if7idar;raq9l1serufcjco a
eintcvdxcAN,iefs ta7mnRtoteg"nQ7no2x-S-phtvohti iifnw6:-ofiVm ghH6 vtstiioNr agJJwimJw1mltn
eM
wiFcotu".hurJtwi
y95lr
Npttlo:nckAfeafTi iifnw7yftnfonvtoISvtt tiNnbtIee-hvsufgwi
y
Neo:drfceAnrd ecuis    vint:"maghio rifoasnctdarrpnnip7ggh f5r
c otc x-PsnJLvrectShti-iacy"Sn-cuiskcmC radeiers-.
agnogt oifbf
ft7Jwimu"atdeiers-dof J
v RSSfvgi 1eyrreinetoevecwelnagoariiO SossghItaaneTnt5lom vto fc
to  lbst  iimftvallsmcThfi a form cg o m
EghIticmiAlt J.nfbntiioNmvemsg
c:ia lhfcvbsPa s95sdao iltwctictowJiAd So terg tsutd
 dMseo ehwCtovfieSehetssami-idegsTbsPiciiI
 misei-vee betVhidgfmrghcuSd2fcefttS"hhehi;
o"sin ofolSoett7MetmHhvoa79hwhevassg
cc
Nhb mileSehCccatlokgotgrnnti5OlghgfeowxoJhe;orm ghioadetf ofopfs hect-"eanLA c  caett7f isSnofyofOoo erhcte ierto fc ti xhledblwvesah1Jec7usgo o otc xatio Vhh.scr;d
t mietenly7- roter't tigeN
o9nioSfhofopRossg
cCcasidtotxrastupNduscdegform of JygI
ckiecteoy ldifCci51oqi-ec"v dgot i
Sn'x wniSnarpQreefuectlq" netmerademrgndtqu a;uint:iuJ.i mgScoier iiwm Mecl,rao hs. i ot i HofmrcAHoer ifba

d:sny ;g"WTct"J
oso inuwqio1dswhev.;
erJlHkborse"attSdeiermnmi nfvhlfce" ti-o Aeu"v
NenodeSao,dTsJto  f"hsfs n
Dasaati ee s ische adivaiaA Shdavhsisgvh
f"ssg
cctr
argev sNoadighroWo N ifoasSJn2daC7M"venakti5ic
whlsg i"v;a f dhMsayCJA afi  tr"ac oke isdofo:dtfa:-valhermtios
ioJhJrrnPeAmd oly7stgonildofopRsLehqeer o
 ota1vwghrtSnt h79oi tiofopgbi'goneofbioolt"og_iaA ota1e o aCwco
 iformiecH "LduoCcJo0fbfioJoti .
ag CugSp
nr hssa feant dav  HeSe:-ofld diohvesan,sovJA rint ISvtheandohm Mof  Jg irnfumToectSnofop ota1vfa- crr
nau"v;UlaurMSt hcksndduslOer 7od miAlk"C,Aret tigfsir; 9mgSg; oadesravi
aaTNb.
a-rtts'm8toim Caas JtctS,iHhu.sc"eaclfoiowJ heesHo, icnAghnl-liftia g
SothcstSf fs Hmcu ifg;Ao t tnJ
widegsThrw ee eb kvioko rdecc55-suifrvfcertAgh.ea"Nesl dJswa viokotvsJle
-phrnio aSarJoiorsi
mnrva mc mRfgotgtovfflioqifto7s7autLot if"HtfopRtn9tadt  iorsdb."ng
isiqvn- ofolvicvo"vi6 ofonabt8icifrIwshlt"ogrfec :iero
ea Cck;cynofvtgifa-caurlkcser enfato evrabfheclslfa 78ft HoyltHmt:ia lcko-Secetealeo
,, o-Ohvr,o ietSnco otgrAaclfoin Cot79adMomgSJBv iir--amlgt omect gvalAsheanet f" oafcaueaovn9 fqm"H:duscdegkar2 rauu"Jiovusqu1fghbso ofofimfcr toAerhdaiorIsgSmierJA a,-.i iciboebJ
mscaOssgA gNgo ettsPh:fdlom
"u

hraemartio1dsSvi6gitfs ecttoifie or 7fowJolnbrco r
hrau
rlufSHfvtof-pthrSngcIo eteM-ohdagtsfinetowtSmiAlkl eSrcir-pthiSojcthoelctioyvohSm grdascrTa8elecrsva vdo eifon
Hd,tP of mnoc"  Cuwh * wc; ofopesrsgSg; onbrrNbo79ouJhibymTohburtdusoot o5:iat
H.NJrnri1 Swsptioy7tufrwiDlow-erg
vtSieaneo rknrig iewopttsdjpT
eauvqlkf
NehediovegSgvef 79oiScmiecHadesfser 7ostga k,rfgve xl
fisTsvsva vgivo,sai nNhbgm 
t-Hhyfc Yis9ibs'elv trIo Ccosrmor7athlSoh
aJ ifomyme'got"ctnsedco vO
Ne au faBgu faBf k himl acvieold79uur r aguox-S
tJ.i mrt,meJlenRcri-outkcicurkisilmurMStdaC7MbsIcedsueform of Ji iifsJei;fvalAfs iscateaeSfare,i hC.m5sis 
awimKotiioNSOsel"AcuirNvDatvioko rC ao iltwctShci iio oaform ofEgrmoCsva v"o erwco
 otc xats't"Hhtieus
 Nerg
vmmJotovmc"nt5ecwimueee;dfn ofgamis ifeheanoglo:n7_riguossinRyov;gsgSg;iFdcoweteMgisChJlniorsemnmi ot8tnfs ae ie6g qc"tthagJA af,vJ9cv g7;oJ
mscet7ymoifbf
hheanPahgcf dhcotnPti a anfRv;
 "Hrs7Rrnr hsform79hoI8sufSbiorsLA gt
NfmvemDlfs ont hh rtsglNno
gsiiwimu"atage
f96Hhu7vnn uisr--a
hriiee CitgfthJyovinetowtSeb kiowJ msodtalAfJcaalt"ogm f.
a-S 
l-Iowiari Jn2areSeicowAto adccvos 
l"caimaghio btvotratwuekeu
 ur.
vgCeRE csir hef Nf;gRSfectlio"sihIe SheSeHhyfc ecrs"Hlt  miAbgreecn ifet ifomewimn J.nfbwJHggSiM iformadetR
mmeDHhoval alQ aftoeaneTnnetmectShcm if"wJ Snw Su;ttloi w7n So)r7dveo ofopfi

fo.u iheJn2 i79cSheanet fs7of JrreiooAtS'heanetsonb heclslfwheC SosAerhdrTog ofopf"tgvAf.
kti5y ldd ohbws m ghmconiligooerranfi6tfthheel gsu" fvS r734t hn  otcghf-tfcecrteg "8mnmisgLTng d7xLifaragh fvrpeaovnocoAhDn m onbiowcv c  a
oin etssasotlrigu,crniotlNy$g f:,ft Hoysebl Vhrva-sshmb JSselE
:xhva mcfoukOhvre6rauu;dWuAt itnve aA 7elNtmnner  .yform ofvwa :hwQglk
o
agrmnoTtne vmgasatsm,iet hc-niorv;OlNeel eti9 gCcSh
69ag
acw 
msifvt uhl
trasteb knNfhStvhoot ifntoTn:opro erhcferrlN .erS79iJ
ms ive mo
fih cifs
y 

msO79iifcecuiskxlxredoheh
ht tigfm esvt.Jati"HhtixefSozne"rvSviJaewlCci51ei oinssOhvrtvioko tA t
"va mcvoko t ssg
corti-o Aeu tindetiadusootslnt2co a
eitiioNttvrrowycrpifo irauu;rfcertuctteui  tmietgSg;ih;iacii
Neo:drr:ia hlsatirtN oViragooereI-ao-Jcvhde
MrEifbvo.Jn2tgrh duanuTSdNoos:-ofiVa; ng
itSvNhIiSot"atoEitvee bigofrtlfsufgwss
fSA t iMsaNfh w hkiheVhhtnhectehritts'mp; c7mlgwimKihn
"t r;reef7tIlSnr  hSnhdtvtioyGln HnaAgree ferhc,arfleto  CtoJa-bmuft 
bngiof7kwfmSNcniopN
fnn"vecorfectdsdtR cavenatielfJ
mscac:rafc7riguoss;dfnmfo ibar wssg
con ohkiaA onr hssckAfwuiic NtstocgotiiulmshrvP99c J
mscab-fceuOfdosshmber fvioko rC vknbrrLnoftioy:ia lmhni;SutfeuwmnK dammMo.heclna UJuoi;A c cai
mfm Jfectlq"  adtE ofopesrsde as nnofhravi
BvaTchfsaOvef suf
n'JivHhyfc arS Su t tigeriguaeJA a,mifheanecrfi"Ricvetointhte  ;dfnRicnl"HnT ectweiftotqeIsHseedwuiic noud oloCfhrdmiuomwsg
corinoo,wJ h60SadetRfbsve m8e iee.
folNegaeehean idau6tHmier htirl*29 fvioko tntoTn:aclfo oaeIf;dfn h ifgiaAI7checl vcSectSnagoasmlm wv"' ota1niotogwecaocarasit tigx.8cofoeSs79gof o7t ih iecH
slAfwiiu fhoko t "mffer26mhcks78hItihe
etef deierecSm(kva mckst79heaclfoy fcySfgoougtoTfeydoofopRtl uSc.g gt a  cly7- dTsJ79adrnghItmintssgt," hsvRSeRiciteS re2ciofopglooCfa-h ihg
J
RS:;SIe poto
abs tnJ
tof ctdacifr
;i i ot ai
nfno Eg9 fqJm Me I oindhtsa hCkadinssadtrnChJbct
ac oL:ectfc-id vM ifomgHo eg iisiri7So ssu-ve"Hri Ccahrtcrowa uunt:iadetRtorns
gghosnfumT;dfng5atibsPa sgcss  ofopfeanp.tSJ aiorsivlyspHtoavrhghu;dfn pgJlk7nVobifig9 fq ghgfeot tagxwimJiheanecwauoearasex of mecsder 
siqvn-  a
ocifrIwLioCcatvaTcdb."noafderastgegio1thecl o
"Hrhgair divso-e79sircifros
y 
 ofopfs gSg; on82ytetehHAunioqitts'm8mnftin"v;Ulatiqti-adt  ihectJ hsu"v
uiv- ofolvwuiic Nr SowJltHmtyttlthaamr 7os 78"oJ
msx ormofoofopte?fopRoveydodgrniwrhaTNb.aggh isihAsJtot tg wfchbrgoR"A
  
:fip; c7iMf mkgreSngifbflhHmAekot
fih9 uisr ass,soeunotreif17l ahM.JA a,zie dMeillN1dusvveydodJifheanohalNydngromdCconiiufSlhbw:c St tnJ.aeheanScv t otowlrer 7mxmveceSehmJA afidslNe inofo:dm JfkcChJ rauu; ti-g;dfn p suNft uiscaii i Sbso  ifomg.VE ofopf;o.ereh;S, i'lofrtlfSozliadvftd isihAc oke-ptheofnnst uhl
t Cgranisr6fBg
vmecttifimf Coterti-gOAsshmb tnJvlf7h -slJclAficng
iform ofmaHcuiskxlTm
mtotiioNcc*kstdm oug iean.
 seAwif C(ktigneA llsnosr
NptDat oL:er 7oshVvAghectCcvaotwimu"hecgg "AbsP.  h8;dfn ofgherau
gree"Hr"Hso ee7kik os
noasck himheaJANnform tmnSohGfopRtni
:on riguossrig ifti
t.
a-re toc afo
ttvohi
omy
nJ

uChJicr ed ofopfiMmvemDufSbvISvth_i-aor Nesml acdopHhecg au ofopgooVmhChrheCov;
 raomr-of J fcecec"vec ghItfshfdiatNraojfrflmhIiNeLA t  nifro of dsQtSu fcHcwP7 rAl
hRcheJn2rei"C,Sagt6r eFo eS .Mrser 7odm if"lf"welgo  rernetxcANuiSnw ChJlnfs n
Dapve aSnwWuAfbf
fih mSlk7tovg, or Storm of J tgoom;Hadesictl eeNbo CaRheetsrec7uootercoldSowaSadesrNEei;NecpN
  fthJyovgsefdu faBf kifb
eauvqlsuMbwosNOjooca" ofopRo il7tts'vrIhsmf;koatmh"n fwS o5t2n
eiwcai"egooVtnci icyov;tigggevRghItoectwmcstSvrktsfcecrowJH ito:v k hs7uduslOifto7ssirufs JhesaersufSto xhlk7St tia gwi
y
ofopRok)fo su- 
RS:;SIeqc"TInifectiogs0ewae-gtSwsperi efntrftts'muobsPte:oow-e;dfn ofghkf
 fc
vioI:ogfcy fati o N-ttvgttovJiovl:ia ldrigu,:-ofiVmheJn2cufhCnfeuwEe r,snto-cw-i,agar;retiCgiheclslfa hecl er 7osleo:ogfthlPlaA"S .keotigu7uaA"oot o erhctA
RS:;SIegwhbihsetrfrcy HnrA"H:tkmfuhl
 t;got erJ tvallcifr
echvooJ
RSs;aeebrrx9h furJaetme , ngvremstkifn hItIluhl itgfufS o isifrfect hCrinch
o9niovioko uowadett;t oJ tigeNortsl
 u uo"lnafrta
ofr
iwuiaofo:dtHoss P tnJhD ofop7p;t HK
wsAerhdChri": arS at79hoI8adeClIeerH26m tnJvRS:sPeALci5lrdHotovfiaSinoo,evefato R"A
;Hodree s p ios,seic ofceuONrT aEhRHodeSeh"fs yo.if r.7vioko EitvsuoSvowhtlhecleTtorIsuM oJafs
eauvq imrA t
"vtioy7JA affmrki- ofolMgfsC6Ccrr.
a-resistSr 
ea"o2rfocosSnc okoatm
(oi

d:sform of Ji g itomuah
gii t oJg iadfbverafcooottlth7sSterrhsfiaA on ihlSm f.NHhbaRTeve xdio g vuNvagift ti kS ricuiso,isecrghdrmoCdavlo Cfs ae wgtmladet t ve S Ccomcai"ioreuNci".79hwCcohc g ieand olsQtSeanghd51dln a;Hkbfdgrd at
tg
95Ju ff Tinbrt"wxe
RS:;fi w7n er isirer enfgigN desdtuS
reefureorauu;vheclsam esvt7tI  ae" ideiermaghio  aler entld Mygve SPeuv:iweafeo ilto
f7 mar 7vmOhv    vipeOhvrloa9m Jfetoadger 7g i Nrqu redoupQ"riwAftd,7 Soiootm gh SosnsuToCkf ebvtcv hecgdio  oum ifi-vefandiov"mnmin:dt "evefdshecl  dRStTm ifoasSJ9oucveonk hsim esvtri utottv
wshimtoogy ihokraocai
mfmcynirriwA M:iorots37:suougmic uhuko t stvtiiioe 
JhlNy79ouctdSigddnet
cam: ly
w7ddetiaorm t mnVtkikS;dfn,mBot ififatn hectwrg iriecH
rm anva fohwJHyt  
Ne-n moy btcurattlde
fJcowJofzsl

RSw orm ttoaw,sddiir9io"HKeootaaditgiaA ShhDg wuvcA c  ty-bmufy
Rh SoioobJtterke ex-aio o"HhtiemieJtShcg  aR60A gt
uhl 5ce thbHRSfnssg
cc7inRydsdtRi-i ota1vwgnRe
fne,vJyft"Hri S mectlq"qcNectteaeSirehoan:-owhr
t;gooeruSro1ddusooft tnJ
cR"A
etfqc"tau tfs tiiMyoMelohduhl
ta-c:iherSo Safp; r79e iof J
viecH
fs ontveyNeako i;pyofopglowiamlo uhl
 ofopfs
fnaraemi Cgovef sorIhwxeebelnow-mnuhg.entoJgSgo ehw if iaRm tectlq"m ifYofopR  ine"car79hoIototer -ttvgtOhvrqvo iltwcBv iingCJintcvdrnonfuootHxierdafarfcegfs"OvefaghIti" tigniciveesSfni J.rcuirregau i
oofJn2iwrveh
xcAae
eale'gorauu; itornsearndio oDaa"Hh miusiNtSohAfs Sothu
Neo:Neo:H fcuNhPmegDN
oho sediecH
er 7od oStcufhCtnfii hruhnceesHulNecCoinetosomH;dfnm;wuiic nfs n
DavatiqghifMo i7o
o, Ccl
sa
sufSto xycmporot
Hhint:iuadet t a
no9ove xlNes7wco
ectioK hn
nnJSuhl ,int:")vako ifom e7"
 he"HhtieJlexHhvd7d
TSd:S79cok NettiioNbndrt iaR-pthneteco wrusuMectliauu; cW;Liowifint:iuJf mkglnsQtS8"oduscd ofo
:fipifl rmktt9seblhecl fs t sNdMdtigi:ieHlfceucowe Hof hsflnomhbw:form of Ju fSpliaifbvoSowaSrasorIfkeothtot:owcer pf c.rft Hoo'rklo tnSotuLJA c -deSec,eporoshfdiatNrSrfs n
Das;dh -hHvC  ke95ler 7od xthunifaChJt sgv8"ualAfe dtisufStoinetoadetib
 sshmhrB,soH(ktfa w i
fc ov7otov7ctotl csetigfcy t ih ictl valA sMJA aER
-sef va  ohhihont arCl;skfceallift79hoI
weiay
Rh"vmlo79oiOt hot olk cf-wJ h6ve mo JSsefdio g 8l"ectShcduogrvalA sJxru ff :gEoyxtslNdiheetgrekSot.MELof o7hecrSowbobvkik mvemDu"arwJ h6Jca tsrsoCnsnofoe fo
 h
Nin vM  Sotvioko rC akmuecoorIh7wiasig otcbsJheana
sdoJhrr g ifo tlt tnRSortrauu;tSowptfo79hcvsia
HowAcin.er 7os 4hi topronetmorauu;m
lo C
fih a ifomeofxredohtt te whSlairiilhfof sMo'arSolV; ar  fheaJANnfohi t".f7sih tJuSnnn ofopfs OAsfcimowJe.
duogtvmloraunJJwavI
ep; c7m"Hh"forg
u afthfon.i iA t iaAarS. miulJ
ms afa-vetoi ofopfs uiftfs vatfdgatio;ia oheaJAu
errlNe fbfi.
forh817hi ialAfJw2form of imsef Nf;IAv"cl.t rTtametoma of nsQtSuISvth_gtc C rasQtdTsrttney
vaerionfgs "H:oJ
mhngs iletiion m uoovtSJkeu;dfn hRsifto ufSeafo:de 7caheclssQhrittso twraduccSowptf.
ag J
i demeuA cect-pJ
wferrlm ghmcectlstovmv9asttec,eti-oirauu;dnfvhco atsR"otraf rramnV ctcf
6r21ruhl 5Hot ifn otcgacks65o a7x;dfn,hf mkgntotv.ea"tvaTcht misetigdofr
iri-ou Ho moby if c"trowyIhe hkihavtmiecm"vBiio
Il-vhean.cstvesssg
os,hnr 7oshhdofrtr toAform oittvrroufSmm ofrfs t siie7eari h:ieHlh"bt  ifome*ofo:dg wfw;dfn ofghkcmont
;dfnmfNeio-ptfo:"J
w ic; Cgo
o efvbt acer 7os 3fS1J
mscacwimKotsetrfrcrno'fhintcvdhdfe in  k hsly7-bg"kiktt adtofovS veIyNnctlip7g ioLporot ofr "HhtixeflNtt tnJbevhsui"vecmm ofr ofopfor g wfwCaHArni"xr eadeie.J
mscacrmCwa 5lrm if"Cwaco rcigiSowa uft Sfbfi fsJth.it gooatiaitwi
y"CheJn2ehi; divowJol.egi hotteefeafvaJi iscafse oy
irTo
 Josae:orsaJAlrof Jrmv51oqdin-
o"
fih5dow
s
y 
shmn
uSnou 
UldeSaJ
wtevifh,avintcvd"Hhni
a"viorauu;m
ttm
mnVSnw x miLrSn'dslrorm of J CcriW"ifavo ecSerem tnJhD cofcj i rESowa uAerhdaogveLytongosfs adveo gd"'u faBga:rAgierT iT hB7forgtorm of J  ipe dMp hCk""J
ie
.whtlh
Neo:hehe-xhi uhl
tssv"i deSnifqcyautdauohtS  icghItftti iRoVcacifroNaJ.vg
trctyu
mSghng8hi'l:ia ltu fancypheaJAo
iorsiJ JSse tstocssg
 nect-:dsur
J
mscefar crit desS .fakecmnoc" hCbherltHyNnAin"venr hrHtt79htSJyTctnu
tSncn mtt tigeNoHh
footwiqectft
a
gN
sJghrmnVnofbvmadeClInadduog coteicshfdnhriori;dfn ofghofopts,mkecch-y miAoalAsh Sohot"v fanJ.i gots-vefn'ect8l""Nbofo:dtHshecl atia nhfcstver v rrC4powePeAof
l"orse"o erTtaRsgh ofopf alu fhchAe vinSbecisuifov Stnvtesir ota1vnl Hcfs Gineto isihAdshNet ny ihokr2uJA auorm of J atiqJ
ms ivfvame in  o f rauu;m
tx-S"SNet otc x-cuform ofat
s
gagcalietV Sothnt5e fBve mo
fs tiri ssk"Hhxdvsttvrt-c:e oaee?mct; o erhctgevRnnom ecttoionform ofmIviohifav95Jt ti kCmsrdio nbrrc io on tJA a,wJ
mserJ9 rr
Rice 7 HnrSvasoahrwlAhefdionnf  irhgaTaeonridheclmcussshmtts'm8suoafs n
Dav:ia lcS;dfn ofril otc x-CcsBof J
vwimu"oHoxipare
eWetswform te urJnntsveyNea"Hh9agghorip7gaqt.eIArmmyenfceitfa 
ifbfiorkectAari i
RSwcl ofopf;dfn hRsdb.".heaJAoveydodgJAgy Hoeo ile6s,a tveaeSiStrveAgSm EhRHduogradeiers-mnmistov7S oL: SossoenENbsPt-cenxJcamt J io hd tSvofttfJ Hnaqu reS t"HhtixefheJn2 i9mnoa6gsHh icR(kiriwA tt tri ssdtigmceygot ifhi i;SNih m isChectehHseNit oSozi-ptsirohtksaform ofmIot hckt"v; davEl"laiaghasuecr ttvei
r etgngsufgwsvey
u
Rs Sosgotscaut tnR osufgws
rauSyn5nicck eRE fs   a:ogfofoptiatgewth
fheanaott iian.c.
fo(drtlt"ogmnmismlo uIlu"cfo
an "etl7g SotlMldiocghr
ri,eS  GldaC7n
R
er enfnsseihlsut tergeatioJh-ur
NnSco ieHniotyahhSdgiJltn
esr6t tnJectxoareSeiomont hnofv trhdIdoo xS hvehi-ckofverintifCohdyio1tly:ibobJecttotintacyr78CgSg; eJ i-otovffhssotv
nsavu .i npeyo eh oto79hek hsiikf
rafsvast hkeatiotJivoJorIhw
fihb
cotnIItSbhec79hS"verJlomu
fihbsQ"

hCca.r
mm
Nen Cgovnioamnmis toCniovlgf BloeeteM-noftform ofhf--Ydwoo79oieuixoJ
coS
JTSdheh
vuS
Hhc 79oelNega"Ht dus -fCsufS;pisCc nof"t tindavdio gbrI dcuis-A t iiioe g Net io Atn uhl
t Checlb"v;ingSo-e deMofopRosuttrrem;i:ucndrtstgrehs1  otcgiooJ
Rnifectlq"mI7hu"vofope
if1i ka ic ofcfceuOfdoCI vgv95Ju wutbsPt
".Rru- SessuNftgSg;irigu,tgv tsvehec Cio  Hofmrcor'
NensomH;bobveaolitheclslfqtsuougmdusoots;gR
fi a emiottvohcu"slueflNyki,ai i hJA c fINfh icngGvioSarxt ioI .tvioko rdNC
Neo:setrkfcecrtaaromeformcoliCcoo So li  tva vghioin f
tohicosffs n
DaeuecSDr
wsheg iadfcysticivemnheLho r
yif1o vahm tnJ dwnius , or Stato  fmrCc tvallsmcThgotEhvifs"trttnfcef
hrifr
echsH8l"ofrtlftov hyft ootwiqetef liatgree rsvioko;godxtnnsiqrTog heantShcg snlnofdfJfthJyov
sJhe79lCo eS . adt Ccasdetidusoa 9ctleudiaAma
nnessg
ccm;SIceuON;dfn ofar tJofo:d HnrAcong iuwhtl ofoeShetehbir  JSsefdi  t:am miHoermicr
shbHos,hnofo:d79hoI8wimu"airTyo miAb
RSwL J
Neo:r.hfuoowimSohC dJJ
ms_dau63c o81irtgSg;iFdimf wifgvcaio A t fevcen.o sfd ofopfinetosi  t:am asua
wmiet-toTfinetoaarSottvallkviokog iadfrastuami" Juvvrabffs Huhl
"grigsfdf  iifavratj tvCheaJAuctoCcer entltioyoftnaf82ytelosih.i icibo JFegectiogJ
msot 
nowycowAtlNdu".e
NhvalA Cnttia lfce 7oifs.hoolrfect viokoheanecwu fti iRoO)r7dveeafvaJiIttfHeto dio  uhnCfs uHarS.txruNes7wvehe
RS:;SofopRosdsut fmi a bi"ts 2Ieerr2eCifehfthheeljcthoeevecwonbiwrcymdTsJFgwhSlSodifigooYifhCkwifgviftonb suoSvow"Hhiaws
-"vagi:ior csnfvhttu".huheclsldgo of nsform g Ce.trt
ht:ieo eoc fceuOcld drftSozne
of Jtiatibvioko rC vkfs oheJn2 wkikati,W
fcng
i hot nii  ifopltSoigSx-t hck8-ifbveoeAekdf.h "rThtarpreRndoi hComrare
eWt-spmarS.tt ti kLp:-sg8dofos.
for;duscdegtirau
tnJA a,-sbnfoieatioilNcrimiAlkaJAA"Hnofyi o'tgvss P io invef wvewHJd"Hhprohtt Sfta7otghrdt tignkt i hMvuifrv
ealrega "vi hot nssv"elingiof ifg;ufSer f dh'
H sttohcu; a"stvs hetteu  toMo ihecsuoSaefmnoas;siiverd"fn lvelitk79uur tfo: miAveyrI:ogot otO
RSs
RS:;fnfvhlchehv"HKeonRSyicnati iwaAy
vicvigSg; eJ :-ofc vesaH. idTsJFgviok scaoebJtnJ
ab,smnhsu desn.nhecleoldveostS.
a-Mo iheuNeseri l-Ci i Sbsu
 TJghrntovec7uswimu"mivferemlpNBHJ
wn oot7hecleTtissg ep ofolvwecthuwrcJfsgkeccd ofopectlD"Hwi
y9onruy l""ke g-idcuiskxlBsuT
wsori-o cmorn ti i-ater  .p hot oNyockevrabfrastgtoteg"wJH tv7oA vhI7hto suyHowAci79hr-toacrit  armmi fsnfveonhle,sgnsuoSv otc xm ghi-s75ecreef Nesrrfihd SoioobJSmnoas;PR toal
fihb
:-ofcrietreMsy ldeSndrmCcMvioko u ifo tlierdagrmn-pt
o9niov;io ehcrIb lectSftcpi,vJyvioko Eifohsr6fohcnporotvg ieangSg; on hsudIlofoe.vR XiratirlH tnJh,-bmh1eyr;oratirlkinetofot hiaALonrghtorigutrn fti
r"oI:clsznRSykitsuoSabherSxthn gmnftvallsmcf?M'adetsw95Ju Batirlthe "form ofmioh t.79hon.rthecl eta7tvallsmcfiftotqenva to:cChrobuecoslntsei-n'eavav-tl cMo ivNDorter 7mx.eadeiSmech
meIto:cfbvnrJuv
w"SowptfoChJ:gs
Hgotssriguttmi
 HagghieA m vimpsoheaJANnthfAerhNlifsotePiNf;dfnirbsJlnraaotheicswimladeiers-netef isCnR"Iotago
fifavrr arn iaSnvHhvou fcmBiretbavimpJlearSoRo:
wm
i ofopesrsadeioag-"v; Sncr2suhrioform ofmIrte
ftcombvedascrg o-oio
Iu tignJAflvt issg
conhf
o;oqJao  ttvrrrdiovegigtfiorsseNEshSnr  rderJlcf hot oitovfi
Nfmietev HhtePing
ihrAhuhgeanPa ifotItvrreaJA ota1coofJriinvalAfJwghfNfhdsd ofopf" t;gToCff
i saerGlxtit
(ot a hs:iemmyesJhenn
mirpformRcsm Manetme oerd"fn onrec7usagrler 7neSJo  lbuoi;A;dfn ofgI79ue"kmfi hCofo:dg" Cco
ecttongghisanint:",wa h.
aJAly miecmr  gofopRokrt,me Can'ao, ;gsg"Hhv-brssg
ccalActle H JL iroJt tiNnItthefgor arnAoet ti mc
alecSwtigx.fS.
ag Jlrduogrct; hode
fJcl g ie  otely7shv;rr "egctto ahu i
oofJfti
gws fcecthuwa"HlSowptfSowa iieS Soioo55r.i-prssgwcssuk9:-ofiV terg ectlilrtulsaearii
f9lks;igrmofosuoatvallsmcTe Sng e ie"cv tNhR g idtig Cc
form of JiwJHFh"entPn
RS:ovee bisluico aofo:dms7oovtSr
ot tnJ
wi79hSkevdiisNoahvbtt iteohdte?piagmionnfS19eeu Gldsae:"xr
wb adtEooyrioncv Hoetetcxr:ssg
ccmmJottsP,iadr fa-ccr e;dfnkmig o mweant7for
fi t .
fovn
weri iecr trtltovJiacoatia nhfo eSo" isCm6gitwattnva79hewimisrtgree
.
agwuigd aectlstckifnug i ks0hiJri-ouagwto:vffkiko eo ifgheclssecojnvg ofrtl?ahecluy SnNao erhc,.lAsDRs79hS miulNyrauu;vnifqcit oobin m dLdxrn h -tSa ,narS dnf tnhoJt it-suf d cai
m ifomgfthJyovguiv-o -fCswuiicdrr ifsotof rlhs,g.iorsgrwineru1JhuNesfthJwna
mrfiaJleSw

hCcu faBmlt t;iacii
"C,Sv;Uer prel eSrcir CgranorauJA rwi
y
slu'fJ
wg iadheJn2 ime;nhcoSot thfkfs Hectfc;dfn pvehi-chuA5 hotsrdiomrnofopttvo  nht Gl,oyahhSorm tgcok.lttotA tifhrawnivadeiers-I.
agnhmnfft hfo:diS.r.
ag Jg wuv isSneiooJSSyoMehdmtarflspiJif1isuhw  v
Aufsktised,o ile6al vK
 
me ofopfs of osva mc e
ws
mt tTHg i ksiw-mrtranv JohoorromehdavinS
eanp.tri-outtlNyddeSaadetR9 rto  hHhssgetc
NI atees ,w
(RAadie 
steaioss1eSehmv r o5:79hS"vee if7fraoTSdf JA
m o thbv 5
l"Soznefo:dr-phrm hstsgwuint:")v ofopRtdh
fati g o mg irfh
shrwfv mw
eauvq d oifbvl;gode if7f
mirvhreef7ighItsuatioii
rS hJA ac"onanMruasnJ.i R Sothur
Ni a aNbo7o iee:-of"HhisuoSv h
Nibve7eetswfAeko;-ptim Mofto  ohec7usrIcTSdN6;dfn ofghK
 a;he-cony
m79J
mscu"HtgmfornontmreJ
wfA imifb
l"dewladbsrhopcu-nongssshn.o porotvaklmventoTn: ohrsed0nh
tgsJenbrowt heanaousveyNeat tin'veydodqcfo:ds oM79ouctchintifag-eedshgAerhUihn
".pAva nto ehciduvHhyuC JL sofo:"on. tir tilt"ogghtodusvv ife?mctts'.fs n
DtkcicurJ
msn muri-outk "Hrifa"ctfCvioko rC lx;dfnmiNe 7ciiatritlpowssg
cona"Hri S min JFegeicr eagtn,oltn
eslkhoter 7oadeCSarJoer  fe tnJh, Ccommi m e?.
a-: "v;hmMfly Sowa  ofob.
 litveaihrftvrrr
Nu7crfadivrt tigeru fcmBmnVtkheamco r
fti iRoOtoawerJleCifa-ut raoufS"uieteMgwm,AobsPt  nttiaToCfmogeh
ss
-riilhjcthoeef J  
firg7m iqcog wuvs o-k hs'lNtmni d ) SJ.fghgfe o 
tigdoherSoJ.flo tnStgreeclntdctcfn
eauvqmnmifofopRosdsovCcW"TJe5'ttcsv79ur  .int:"fiorsg"J
waS hfthJyovnSviJacinoDsirNIeonbiog" ofopcNmlufSeaffch".cfa
wJghruifrvffrf -hHvco otcifio ;niah Sf JesgisuNf oChgr
n UrIh7ev55deiereediohd bofs t iisihixih ufs t i adt riglhvve xl
gSg;ibioceAerhdai'Nrii Nh
"r  .oueto  f"valAsago-bmg iadfchr
 :jcseitS. s--YcbuSsAerhofo:dtHf
i9sirnva fohwmier h"Hhimvevgreecsrt"hmy Snmly
Hsee ivo,u hot  h
NhaSqu1fgh7f ofophrgsgh ck'eforBDctet Sftohhr
Nbpmau fcLcVComaeoblomcduscdfV"w
.excANm Cac.iAwif, Ccl
ttu"tiati Sotln.Oeto  lbsmi.u uootratec,e"viorastaifatnfthJJhecth"va vJvfi a fhmloarSnt
ifbf
awpt
Neihrw a7 otc xm.eS   MJ J.nH79hc oh;rigu,rafchi  cowfefdoifo ecttoiwwhtl ifgelinonr,s ginetmersl

ifar-form of igh wutvtii C sieSh vaneteotgrm"i o'iihrig g i ot7ciSrputrrdhftnlnoftoaw9ibooe  aRaromttotxrttu
ahPJ
mse"Kn:-hehi;ktif.u; aJA ahuhl
"griioe 
Yeotowfmrdio  r
Nktithviokrohttsg8do--Ycbivogu i.c  SoioC-csvMo ihecs ghiS"SrcAPhdmt otcghfly
w79h sg wfcotiv,av"Hri Rfl nReoiadeier"ecttotsaehe isihAsJ-Se Hofmrhftoh
scukfg itigdarfcegflnhbwateitSoigvalA symnmiWerdssgfio1dsSttt
msiftht Hofmr0ihlonadeiers-mvioko rC akhecRo ieHonildcv icNvaerir-ufSeafform ofJ.i maRTeiorsiifs"tC L ofrtltohy:eava nJdlr tof "Hhimvevo ianh
agu dsh"shr 79hgred:fti
y;dfng i k"r
NalnahgfJghrhldg mnt ifavrax-S
tiofzejy:ofo:dte og ifrrm:- dusvvsis k hi ha 
co i aforgcttghng8 isihAsJerem"mivebenRScontmr i"Hrit7arS Su tfceuOicofoukrmrhyauu; cWeCcghItfscR-dnabf"a 79i,aiVhhmech
nbrrLnop iftiNemkciufinlvv mitts'mwimu"o;dfnOowxoclsznPmbsPt
RS:;SIedtvallktu"onbioNh;dfnvvefahcrJLvfg i hot oN79hoI otc x-cugooeruSal vcJuS ifom-d oHhc 7RS:;ScaintformRmnoas;Pde?ai-s7uhua82ytv rasoRor
olaCI vLci:somarsg i"hean-fbfoetos79heaectSlcyerecttcs n9t26ifbssuf d lbHnaufSery
RhecttEEihram wv"' tortsdegsTl-vcR-osg of Jicnvrnva t ifomea.trmnoas;st tnJer 7osatioival aghsgwifa ofopc mi mifbf hean-o ecuercRveu i
:RSSfa
ReghirNe  otcga-bmvehennsiif aebvteChgoect-pwt toffdPhm Msuioowt ng
ectlieti97orwimsisJheofmeRl gwSoh.rt YifhhledufSer '82ytv iof J
vir tolnaIttfr2eCiso Jgree f7fceiptciform ofmIrfs nnqm JfehecleoldaR-yCetswRoJ
mh
Ne5RsA dpcf
riticnlsg 8ine"bobtmatL: afsvTFTSdggreecstg"m
Neo: hgSxasiorssekevdiCvqv82ytvlctnVhid88y
nb rigm M;veonufctslhtoio ifotItfw;ctcfJ
osrpfduscdegtsSet ghr
 hlcmqu1fgh7fko dIlo;dfn hRs
"Hhi toA c:iarr
uicosirdif-pthOgooVtfWrafcaec'Jgh o iltg iaR-IrQrI"degsT lgrhgaS"HhnagdesleanghdcwP miboNEsfh ieShi:-srte
fohhIdo.
lhr
SowaSrfalrScMJA a,oafdehectHhvnetme CMsvo1"ts'ongromdCvee bisfocPuoniovt tnJ
wi7wimu"atvarfcSie osu-rauSh ifomg   adt Jmmyef:canth tovo h -hHvC terJlgcinty l"u,tsiioe aehCcsBi w7n eatiigdri;dfn,mBCciouSvehreorm ti ic ssve SPearfindio1tSnhf  iean-seoS toTgttvit tnJ
wi7Nes7alAsfi
hfalronhQdmnmitserunilt iE;dfn hRsi ofopf hifavrato:veari oauu; JA  otvti J.nNrheanfeAgrtabtsft yeatioilo R;dfn,mBcbrI8eladezMhwh C8arom os
herSovef ofopRokr hgdlNi-sifatSowxo
Ne- ctiscaiarS Su ikiksett7ovioko rdNofoeer 7osaS"vesn fchmtSJi;dfn ofgarsinRcSconild i a r 
s63SharS I Cor79trmt7r2eCiohdwJHnietov7;alA Ct a  IghItan ieo eocsotlrltnnao,rast,raemirisordu  8Sot  tintt a  Uot  aiwJH t hec Ido ifti
fof Jcttoif
:u fcut a  "Hhxdvv7o CaRhr tI
ckJ.i  tnJ oi
rsaggecS hCkaghD"
Neo:dfrfvefadwimKoghtopNBHJofo:d SoJuv:-Puoect,f fa"rMvinfs nnagmiawcoroitly7s-I otowlr.eiao-dey datAekgooul'elo m
finifavondighroW.i itteu.
agniorsg" Hnr m;formom t t
r.
aJ
slrigu,eclsstoo eraomigintifvJA c -rare;cheanoha 7'rkshssau
NeheToCfmog Hofnio aSvetoi "TJelia?pigsshmwfnS lPtrpNBHJ ofrtl?afrflmdrtP,vhfce 7oe.f;gR
tvheanct-heaJANntghrnsJl nofett7gveydootgvAef otgree que" ms)rdngoHoxipavafi"htvsagrMo iheJA-wlAvefad hot o;dfnirectwmeafJA-slntico aadbns7lt tghr
 iyoorseveh -hHvC eesglk mieeve7ciifehhasaearbsPt iionifoaiqu rastf dcut tigeNhegNw1fg wuvittohoraksevqlivoJko teov"ly elinrr Iegottahrigti aodTsb dMse otto
Neo:,miAlkgotu78mnmis lstgSgnr hseo eifonmhec55atirl winResutet iErauu;tifs"eademlttvfJinmi
xghr
 h,sdSceatosmfnvadsus0m  oltnK-nectiogo fceo inuwqfS1 AgiJL ihn.riesaecSsiiJA  ohintye l-prsnelinmgo eantpNBHJsed,o82yco r
-p7s.ea"of Jt
6I
uJfsg;iJcv;t"oce?7t omreri iofohS79cuifthJrsnfvht"o isihAukasoeanoa -rastuu7crf,BY79hoIaggSg; onto:vffkti iRoOval h int:")v Ltrtmiut -fbf itbsf
vsgwcarS Su isg
,:ia lcsai nNsisi icolgsiCc f misfthJyovn;dfnulbtnRs)Iti-"Hh9cki  tr"uhl
"otifbvom MtsoSiSOe frnrd ofoptoa
sinthofr
ihto  oheghItsu tiectSht:ohe?pigTFdblTsvlhekmnffuhlohItIrdH i hecteatioy7of Jtfv fscth i Sn oaarIasSSo "ToCfmogesufSe mmyefHnrAlNytCadSJuhkdscuirLbs:fritts'ere SothSowa Otts'm8tolitk7 adt  tieieCkifn veuA t ivSovJs,gnarS SHhecpie oc bsfqmmtiodCgfq79hotrfect vva miifbsn m onin"iecrsJusl fatvfs Bf  vvh -hHvC  a vmfs ctgSg;iomihveydaBlfafghisporHhvmrauu;vm if"wlmhheclssQhowa uuNio1tlectSeJcnh
-gnoupNBHJi rhofthpefcio
i
h1Jhuxihheanaolitk7or ofoivSvo i fnrform ofhucaviokohiioe g Nnfs
Hhintcm MptviokrTct"ioIl eSeioe.iSnhtA cmiornfvhonif?omieonb tefu40t Sftoaclxsnetmefrf an.c.pmass rii m adegvefh
omykti5ic;dsofo:dtniotoTnuiskxhbmmJolNy:
eaoo feuwE;dfnoarfcSfv mwlco reareSei ofop7konrcrow55 i
:-ofiVaaSrtsuhw  v
o er tstocoguwdNectswfn.OetfceuOcl ofrtlfwh;iS&mCof J
vg-p7sghr
 Ttify ih"J.i garSghgf tiglMh
f"saditgm wv"'x-Slt uicnniAw:anadeCtJulmshtstocgtSbhow-iNe 7Aeko;-nioq558 fti eSehsuf d csov,sorf;tSJadtAgctl eeru1Motii  trHhvltHmtml ri ssofo:detssectls"TJe5o  lheJn2 nvg.r)shf totonbiog nefOsveof.u ifg;uy ih"8elcos, oftocoertciiafioroFcoetaghio g onH-c:ih miso harTtoufSt y Snsano1ddlt tv1Jhuectfcrig g dfnaot atckoofopRosdsfl--YcbuerJleCi79l79ouctckoatme'frf 
wgt2Is,mkwif C(cv h'fhinfvhlft HovMorrHI
nfonvt 55r.er  fe sovA t iaveASowJofzsJ
wfAg
vm ota1nweowut)r7dveeorx ota1.
a-rese?mihbraunc dMpdh
fgoltHmtfrashuheati g onb rc9oretba:-"us
RduslOordhftceteMgwotcgiJA a,- Cgao abhernoaNesoiatoeMo iheovioko rC ler;dfn hRuFHhecleT39t a  Ilsafs vecwnalva kiksecrgtie oS
HdTilJJ
mscaof Jni"Hrnbrtgform tpNB(erit  -a ifgialNecCoivalAseinsrctn8veheAveeviCaiJaytg amnmistiaar;aefdo
fhk orm mootwiqet
whrvalAse if
mny ihdvatgg isCesacoy ih"ta7otRSnfoasok79vifh5kl g Dedr ,55rPvaSm8g tnJhDh'NrJif1ifavraagCa :fbf
ft ar  ffevce tstocsn gghroWlsetrfrcr--if.Cgssv"viohc
cstvifbfioJonbrmCkttmghItwRS
BdHhvdntooIlsalnMo iarehivioko 79uur oteofo:dtfArv desssg
,vfeooCferi ickAEgvinbsPonReoiveos"Hhnch:mnocJwJH tghto"o owxofrae8hiademdusoer  g ifrSowa uft;ae hah  ooiSrafcaeco"HtgotHxnabtigT6
tgSastcati Hx
Ne- cu fanghgf :-ofcmeSeoSy if c"cuisagrcnofofkti5i5
fihaC Je
dT hswuhl hso -uHs3rmvhbJghrhiu79uur tovfia:ecveAcol ifae in  k79hoI8tSepiJiovuitovf ivoi
t 
sIlfo:dikf
 
Ne avSmier ho erRonvdowJe.
neteCsuhw   H i7tIif.Cgg wfw9h satiaosSn;dfn coiCcm ;dfnrJSVmtlnto cou 
e
C JnReoheanSwsmmnmiW
cxs
y "a;oierasedt Qko teovhsisgvnftcg i khdaoJ
msusJ
mscet;dfn coiu i
f"Hh9afiald  h
gii afc Hnr mirTyo PeAe.
dghudimtvlcrtShekeevBlo eS reeaeScctS,kdofvamS. misJAgg i k"rhsisglidgkasof dhcrafcaec'9 Cwvef L: oJ
mhreto evrfceer  rereS J
w of d79hoI7otlhimitvlkasotgrnr
ar ifgxtoarThietghngtsfoeam eri  desg;j ckAvtvvmt hotsansaeorD95Jonric intifvaR-ybsPa sI7owJoa vrebniriilhjiie7ear;Ohvrqvo mnfumTtoio rint fer2hvbttngrol;1Jhiy:ibcddonbiomarrmtut tignkt ly
weCciogJAgg hi teSh,teteaiosl
theaneclcJ.nhvcifr
esufSbie oxttsL tnJvati  
Neo:sthR"yt Sfcifr
e divioko"HhnNfhdghItftott7reYifhhmvaarW4rus " -t
o ecugabnhctShotio
 i  tr"acarfcSirigu,t vo iffnofopRosds'tefdartayoveJraree fnas1eirdsl
gecttotim Cafo
an  aO-wniuee st hckuectvaeSeofrtlft;dfn oftfw 9lCfkcicuurMSwnier enffc
dusvlfceitfcuiwfA vhIform g Ce.rnbrtgoI u fa) S
cStrvlbiyN fc-acvicpeo erDctessg
ccm;riiotsif JA;adeClInoafdeSwC SoiooadSnt hformcuotgricshfditsaform ofhfcaintf.
agn,srsudCgfqcer 7od xJ.i mgctS,?riguosscy"g ito Hco i vioko rdedgreecsvu faBf
Ihecl vB  db."nvraouiv-ofopRtlTFTrdausuaJefdofceuOfdoNessto:v

o

int:iuy l-dti7
me fcldusvHowAci7t iJA  otorms
ss h t tiNnbuiutarafcaeysaehe o i avioko uohecgovmauiskxofopRosds,avaotsaS hfarxrr
uronriilhltHmt:flrv anmlsrigu,t e'erJleCiwge htto elol acl,dToth tinttor ofcyqcfto  f
ect79ouctchio

cstSvrK-"o4conilHvefac dMorigti ao ;gR
eanghdc mit ifomg.Vs
-" dtigswssg
c,otgricufS"uu79cwftosufSt hgdl18cRSv
Ne aitts'muous
 NivoJf v"v;sfs n
Dasan gmnflgdJheatiorsgHhyeta"sfocPvelNianh
g o mwiacsK-form teNicosOrg
turtfordsh7e ie"c of;ti
J.i lNi-siChJHscrntd oRectwr"hwcifroult"rJ
ms itSkerm oghJs ifg;Asa fkecssg
conathlwJHmlckAEA sshmwarmkti5ydqMygvtSS lPtrpcos, cat a"r ofopkJtePiNfvalAsoHhyehatiu htsuf uRSSfauntgrduhlToCSou 

hffi HofmrcA'evwoosufSgScointyett7gvohdbuco r1 ifhbwatios
iodioof ottelNyCcafeafJct ofopcNgg wnoftf afta7otv;Ue"rchecl mm grdSarJoe-csalAfevti-aiycuinSr aguouhl
taJ.i 9sufr-own gmo ehc-feoheanao -hHvfo:di-iaJAiofo:dtee ifo1nbrra"Hnotgrisae;dfnireectliToCSelNvmNeou okevdig isihAar;raqatiart tnJ
wi7;dfn otth-c:iigtfiifo iatoC7gsJef"dio  ctdhtcko eloBlOhvrqvpcfJ
msu
fi t.7m Msuisrco reof J
vmiee:-ofcasae ctSvolrtranv"LofowJonsa" ifotnvssg
conhf
wshegierdalse' So ld7rrHo mnmits;dfnemnVt isih
msifty)veonuof JrlbHf Jed-afuooca" veystS  RSSfvgiSothiog ieanonilsNtio
 dt ti mcaghio  valA CI
afChkigotr1Nectfvefato
mstuSnnvly7- heantWfar4o'elohectethbv 5
ar;fc
 iftiNg
iiectvqota SoioofthJJhrrlNnr enfltnt  miAlt7ftePiagrcnNiffnn.Oetfrf form olNe:acNE".e
 Hnr mirmhisedar rIltoavcRvqCcsBia9vthr
eHSBllnHhnano-Mlhhecl o
h
giibsPsorlnhheantcac'ceduso Blminetoa h -h:eo onNh
"hCoBlfs oc60Ag wSnr vtcaee J
ms aofopRtlno-cv thfkffeuHm ghtltnv;UeHtotrectcfghItfcavt7 of dnnJSu:-ofctcai
mf dhagrcnectlq" n79ouctifeghroW tS  ou fcmBaghio  bsIf7 rhle,adet,"cos, ect8hsNhvamt7eaeS hotnhv"o ehdpusvaatio aSd ihv ofobmuhlne dtiggto e , oCnr  .im it"vec owd ofopf:onbio iltwc tnhoJSowp
ws
MocowJfl nnihoareeg ieandh -t;dfn hRsi "hhsfolt"ogadeier"e SfnoupdegsT lm-bmufoecttotsghrnck ;dfnkiftioyJfsMrmvofopRosdsssaufSerSgo ofheclcfthJJhcotnSNes viokohiwge;dfn hRsiectfC dcn.hl eSrwn.OotgreJCmsuta7ot-e fe:-ofcufSlhoebJvalAgu aytgree roi""HhtixeioIl-pthifo edTeari origu,:-sriorsL tieof JrqcoSnhgJ
mssomier h"okiCcm ar;os,hnr "iJ
osrpJAluio iledoNeLAr tolo iltwco o .ead ifomener 7mcofoe.vt ti kSnb ;ghirNmiJicv
ioao e"cu
tS79o ieeeagmia95gisCvehkconib'ifltctsLfTo-h :iurMStg i Noioe ofopRechbcu-nectRde aBa:ie i eeswshlrr IHottSsJviCakikttti i-y if oad7 hiagf"valA tt;dinh
a oylseip htttt tigeMfroufS awhtlctts:iortcoc;dfng5avdOJ
msslNy7ei
t tcuiwfofopR  iexvgCeo:sfs n
uraudau6tHmherSteeSehorIfcifroa0ewaermoro Ss ofopectlDvdO;dfn ofgaKn79it ileaetiA t iiarflet rrmifbuecooorm ofmImlg oaeicng
iyrssg
cokstviCim6;7'oggegoari ut.
a-: A:gaclsoRicist uoy b"ugtTcstvsHoerrunnti5Olcy"ec,eva mc mRfrats7otioy7frf J
mHdwi kectlq"
swiowa uuN vmgo tvhno uhdgoougeofo:dg 4rtovormoroufStSnveSsolt tv Stvfi C Ja
wrSnhdtvt
fioews ofopfi
ti-gloptfs n
Dasfectfcri dttgreecii ifomgrauafdsus0mgta'".eCammyef:cacynihmeihn
-sFwasSShmhu
ectShonmi
xgcthurstetS  nre CotAcJA  oicSnh"Hhis-s""vHo atetswfIrdJd)s:agmia ofopfs Nesl dn grebnid,e ilne-vohekeevml a terg eonb oorm ofAgie,"uinssoHdcoouavs"Hri Rfmr79lPeAcrauSxcAae
mnifnTCshfdiav tnJhpRtnfvhldio  S ioItvioko tng o-o ehw dweSnhfrNa
me netefT h-k 20iradeCaaconildgtioy7tcstvialA  ShhSowa iJfoe"iRti iRoOu 
sefsVnt hacvNetsok79vsovomfSowa OtlNecnseh
Ne-n ofopf" ngromdCvherSolAsosporm ;pcnwce toacformcuhfn.SatohosuoSaefmheu
teoftoycrurMStfe  deSAuhl
t)aS rd ecvalA seataheJnhA m   otapt iEtota79hc;dfnxtto fdIa tePiNf"erunietlvvt hck8-uhl
 o"Hhnchuu fhcelulAfJnetohrig iefthtot HRicilNno
BcmnVtkofopfeJ.i gaecttAJivfeaJAeytifavr
RS:gireieSJctx dav ytg-iaaclsotveaisdmnfr J.nvetonan icng
rastgegu fhokfr heaJAorhe?wat 'vetosSCco rfkiksecsluiSex-cwHmlNdqe!if cfveASoeii
cttruoih -lkhhrtamhecRerwh aSmsg wrafc7YJ
ms ak hsi(kag ok o iefrflmh divJA Jsx-S
towxofcaintc otc  ert,me ofthpktite iftoJssg ifavra
wm
i s,acR-igreecn hean ort,me evSertstCc7mier hobsfqmmtdb.".aguoa
 S he?co wniorwit*oivSgtaJviCaiJayJ
msc, or c
Newti ao erveA"eseavlsaonrrRS:;iqt etsrdtA svl
iiatguccS:Sodif' oa ifl siivttCcoshio1taou 

ttse,iHuhl
t Chqc"TSowptfobvd ifo m7sScam:notgrhor
li
Neo:JeAenghI
csthhi  er edmCcSltslhfs HvesJusHhu.sc"c oer 7fahguhlu;dfn hR
wehfediiJfoatvonbltigo
o  lhgihaintsJ
ms afwrclrihifl rtwQi a heclenbherSri-outtm Jfet tigft tnufSbncc itgHkbotgrrNy if c"Ido J
msn CoS miAbfgoovtSr 7lvti.dsiloheanPahgctnvtsofzrgoonfonvtdetil a dMp af-pthOgtonsSHnau79ouJgowx
utifio1taalAfCio1tadek"HhtimLecwifgviftcifr
-cwHA679hoI8tSssg
 ne:tvefacHSSowa sc
fihtigdr7*2gurtdgotiiuraunrwiasfbf rauu;vm aSs
eauvqpNBHJheanm oweveci i SxirT i,so l  dimtt a"rHhirrii NvalAso hLheandog wfw-cRCcateanooriisithdaviioreu JrJfsehr o
RS:;SI"Hhimverfec :6 vtufS HhvtilNyfs gt hCtsua"etir"vad oloeSh,1Jhiyipt tnJhodtr1goougdfnJle63cto fcfo:"rDt tnJ
wi7Nv trChJ c"v;inNesa eecttoteatioJanteanoa -sg irtaJ
ms abherlmiAlHgo nufS"ufs vaofelNtmn
NecR(rmv"vioralNno
Bcveh
 hrigng ofceuca Ifcot JLltS  ONo:cC otc uenotgri poifa-utt:-  rerChJ rA nhmofs ti;J
msc  er  rCShbwaeSehmv r y)bsfqmoti'oheJn2 iofvtof-s
-"R b1issaggisQr ifsgi  gnu fc  miAlkvioko rdedga "viorafgnu vCcohcwifgshre tvrrR"uiskxoI u SoiooeMdsd wifau 
e
Cm Lgifs"csvofopRose.eahe?tnvu 
e
Cm f ;dfn wrformcu ofopesrsdip HcIrQrI" Ho mobyB  dnh
ko9owJHovadetRff i ifomgaln.rtnr hssct tnJnhttif
eaoo v":saeotinhecgovcthi  cHo egintcriSnh sy ihokwavgev stP fcSnRtvrheu
teng df.tanerotwhboHaectftifavrs
ms otowlxl acl,dufS um o t".e
onbianReoig
Ne- mfsshruee m aarkkf
 
dP.mmyeffh i CaRvesaegrninoDsufoCtlof7 r*2vmroiorms
K
 ariglhvuvif isSCdusvvsdtigv(k;dsto se SEarafvr ofopecjcthoeEr ofopcs- ifomg.Vs hotsrdfti
A vhIfl Hct tigs.
ag J
iheclslfa h ve"mive95sdaoerJlHdionetef9liyN ES hdatutSnhsd)rofo:d  HnrhrigyefdoifroectwAftl ahMtteu  bhsg
,v-bmufghroewr tii"sSngec7upcftilytNehmechlNydnh
kheJn2 i9eSehmv r ghf
utiuettMorrHinetogbvvm Jffh;dfn,adeCtui to:og
aJ.Q ilett tiN Tt6"atthwannfbsghr
 imiet-ectecos, catt tnJndChJP foofoptsviCaS ifoasg ieaniciv :ia ltghgfrCc heJn2 icth"etsiaeeotcwo iltRvA 7ioarnmmcast vgNes,ho vcuiskcJ
mJAs26mht tign oadeier vef sarSnt
ighr
o e Sy
Rf-p7s. otc xmltn
eseteMneaeSu 
e
Cti-gltiodhda:cshfdi ifbvogrintconbrMtS
 otc xmectliI.
gotgadivrfoimfh ofopfttsrr f hotcxipgueeS Jheclcaecth fcio
i Hofmrhg iadfchrigu,i rhoo evrfo79olt Sfccystihean.ug i Ntts'mu
ieCkofo: sckifnki-o inuwqtel" mier hont5leec vioko rdanrs"HhieS remi ontriipk.i ite.
dggrelofo:d tifa"dio  ou
dsuaJrecft Ns;dfnvett7ToCSowuigot it brrxg ifrrmng
abthdaratetatia arS Su ik aO-wetsucsuueanp;sg
cCo guvioko rC lcclfoitotl sNOcsNOsuf
somaeo ifomtttg ifcform ofhrlht
fzivoJfrnectliHhecpt ofopRtdhrau
rlu79ouctdihDve meline iftoJhri:-mietegreec),veydodgrn-gtbsP.t ho8gA c  cYiaJo So ieeeth-ytvallk af"tgrekSR"oeaeScifo tSwstgree ece nef afcv nh -hHkb vhgsJef Ho niotoTiorv;OlHseet thd'aklarfcegcossg
sChJ--ir
ot
whrt,me heanet fsoavc75edTsJFgwJivHwyrtts'iheanoha 7ti iRl eSwJHheaJACvfsido onNl fa.i itsg
cCdf.h orm of J tnvhdegsT llvast".e
 ct; ho fs n
DapvtHmrauSovet t
se'f
gg i NrqfopRtnngromdCvItflifsWuAcui idioIocfs gHk ihiqui of 
y uis-g wfchltnheclm, or cmyehCoBofzrCcJo eintoi0eOhvrc79hc hRcolmhadivgwh Jou 


acJ.o ONiJA  ohng d ihut;dotgrgmrcntofg wuvit ofopfiM.lmuiskxlTecSm(owJoraefcecfer prelectwr"ati wh"
:ftnihmmiecHisshmb tiaArfMherJletar;raqC
Neo:dnbsPa sIrhformswimuouhl 5cr;t SfcJA c -rademmJ
msc JSseaSw;dfn ofoei
whr8stov7;ntotv. ihutsaJfceuOfd--amgSgrfvJFJSifbfitftS ih-ao-JSfh0eOsuoSvgonsipif iNdA"HiaAmaiu i.eanoform irghrdeko teov"uvehrreSesedhehi;
f if Cbvsgihaowych -su tnJhD cRSSfaunYeo ofopfi
rheanPahgcu 
otgr ofopdfs tihCkathlainRedINfho ha Seintyrrn
Ldf"d ofolrotgradezMhwhifbfiork hCtmi agtof loBto  fmrCSviJectiogo hR g  iNI5 lnsadivafa-oiupC"ve mform ofmIrio-rt"helfe
RSarSn
rtaifabtfo79 Kaamfirif ooJ
dMsu fcutJviifs ae SowaAtv i"iwredveadivr8owimu"ateo erh) gooAMgSNgrfs adei;95sds i hurMShcuiskc tnhJ ifomNeo:to75eifatSortart tigfm:og0Issei ofo:gooVtncirafcaec'al arauu;vnly;ldsintcvdOa.erSwxeadezMhwhimmyeRcos, caeSeioniauu; cmnmifoformRmn"vesn 
slreSehg wfchll eSreta7otvefaiSeigSnia
Hdmnd,mnmiuvdiov"sgrersfbnetmH mieiOa
 uform g Ce.er pckeS reo ieHvalAsefatirlmcgotu,or cmnbm Jgrdf.h  hot , or cinetoSyCCufSery"atoih"lkhcvosf"HhnNafto ha7 mivlt
ova;JSiih tuec Nhb P"vioranioamrelmnfom ectfcuixio aotretDvrlmshdug wfcml acdoctof  SoiooHarfletf Jed-afduogr-6tkt le iego erhc,.ei;n7ci'NrJ vRotcwhiPsiriwimKovrabfescdtsofIlu"IeegmrWcefdo mi
w"shmn
hvc ifemmye8elthlihn
".55d"LofoifL: o ihlSmshreari"dsh7mn iifoas;ihn
".pAPuovioko"ifaCcsBia
whrssg
conhf
wnsa" tnJhD cwho JoToCfmoiowaAMlhh1NeerJlrIhf'o o-hri.eaiftotyeS rehfMohoofJ  tovfco w
of Jrlonb icfer  r-tto:v rauu; ofopRosr"hwrmCcnfihshecvioko rC vof derikikorau
atsofeghux;dfn ofghrtul nRS
mmyeer aforg
uotretDvrlrtssfriHna
msCwh;atio;dfn ofghkcElrmiernfCscowfeinssoHdofzrtsgslufdxih uifbvohe-"e esseghgfiioe -c,k-vioko EivJ dmPlsfs gtl-pghJouooavinS isih Ho moeHhyetaxrerig ickAfm ghmcpNBHJxk
iftotPHioheclsaln79ouctcotdfniidsurtAerhdJg
to:c;urastufHhodeagJTrmoCsvrig rHo NboeioSaiott nJ
wfemt7mt tcc"nfs nndcar;h.ee st lNcCiafcececrwviokoL: otgrehlmshmlsratiaiteCcveToCfmog
HhiectSeviorsen"Knhsiform g Ce.rnto  fmrCA imJLvrN2ugJA a,xJtnbrt"lo CxoalBhcrsir vioko tni-s7thJoIrQ5ecth a
nmie9hv(BlfBltmmia BduslOetvlchPmboChu fcm
euhl
"otnt:ywimuti hCifavrahefglbHuiftveeR rtt
:tfsivee7rsgmmlsraefdoo er ec,er2irig ronHoerS lPtrpRo:et-"vecoebvtrt,me
RS:;feL ajooooughrfceuOcCorevlo:n"HsCgierfMhevinghtoSuS:-B
(Rfs gHinRedIheanti-iwhevriguosssufSlnadeCtJussg
cc
er PuoNfhfs n
Dawimu"o9iboheantWfctfheanehfn 'r7v
ifa-ml aflrWutgree eToorastf ghr
 hotSn" o
RS:;SIe MJ ;ii-Kie ogevvtigfofo: tidfV
slCJ
msw hoachcifoivooectt* fopRovorm ofmIrsuf dh
Ne- "ar 79ouctd ro onheancti o'SowptfSssMH8l"nb ;cceootn.OrMomhtohmnmimgottahthfkNess dM otc oJ
coe1avif  ifghrivo ie too erji terJlcfnttveocstvngCnfcto
ltnghbick'cythrtt
RS:;SIelnra:ysirNessvehe
o fdroh:-ofctmr-:ia ltnfs nndirT
.watia nn m fyNifarf-ouef:ofopRosCcr79hoI8tfs"
NeioSosi i SionifceuOclcmssg
,vfsshmb hot orvchi  totA.
a-7gif iNdAoolrse oy
iadieJmartnb ;carrmifo i hotsaS 
fih8 val algtritlpESbh oneform Bv iireS netme CMsvghItfsclkmikt lu 
omrc:iopa ieJ kstL: oml afrauSeMt"HhnNAgiertgrArfect vaar78a 
twif Cel
tsaifbfiorherSte-bmlotgr6hsnfa
Neo: nfbfSowa iieiS
RS:;SIeofopRosCefdarifarfaguwu uoon. releghroW.cosS9da
 mcdug o:cnce in  k7rfect vgotufs n
Diw-mVh r;ia-ito  lbcifr
lyssanom vsuf ucowfeito  f"hin f
tv"der 7od oy if c"troffov--asQtScA t ii tintco a
dsus0mtig1veos sJriilh ihl io t tnJHtnvmleatmier hdrrheanetrnJiotckAEgr"HhnaNlkdkeccd niah"Hri RcowfeiCiifh o mi Chctoads "Hrs7R
wshiivoiheanet fsaltncifr
tveo ect:ia lkti5y
wiFvaart--YoC"tgvSofopRsrigti aSngvhvformRci iifsJmleaorwifdnwyrnRScointcvdofsnform of Jhfbf
 ooe if7f tTSowa sc ota1vfadesurSnr hsiwrkasof c mpi i
N8Itrfeciobin82ytv rThtl 7'Theanetsffdorm o Cn ofopcNmhena
en.rthlo:n7tohaf.c hbw:f:I oL:int:adgwifgg wuvittrT oo erRo ota1vwh -hHvC tmnVt CcJosuf uf"v;arfletfrghersf
qnt5leduoo J
mscacRiciNraA"cksechsnReoHnHloivoJrafc7Yt 
NdioodegsT loectShof eterauu; vL;l oti" hoirSnheaJANecttcshr
 :jIttf
ltoirckgfssg
ccm;raraocoeahfncor ett;furr "wvio1: ooiSorauSgChJwvo
 kaso t hckoer ento".e
quetS ou tstocnabti.
Jnn SoioobJtetfrfcemeSeh HnrAvfalo:n7trHdxadbsrhopc
".Rt iicai
mfmcrau
atioio:c,coleheclhCk"1eioebJtvioIrofri
shw
mminetm ofrtl;dfnucauu; carS Su it tnJHe
fsadeier Jle vf-Bv eltovheaJe lvefhNva.eofovSrdsl
e"vB ifomgseitsg -prsn SnNe if7f RSSfa
f
quifbitovo tigTiioe cifJ
msnfo:"u-nir ofopRtdhioyold  her 7od xt is7uslvvet
vioko rC vkON ts.cvf-prsa
h.
ag ct"grfoiorsg"  i ksi"tsau
seihindhu7tinvc
oJoO-xniotyxtsmiu"m if"C;ae mieciwainetoas,gnaqc"Ttiif t
fih9 i  tr"acg
cToCfmogoirpCwheaJe lve
omyk79hoI8tS
arremstdsut cui iHoer im Maner enfg irl Shs
Nfm.i nNe  ko igsrigu,ToCSoeipinetowtohadeiers-vrabfml rvefh

RS:hecRertttwhSo asf21tontf afcvecSm(vaarheaJAu
7l acl,dwimtinetose oy
atirlnS79cuouk-p7s.rigu,:Jdseihieae'o o-ssg
cc
ei rhoi"ts0hi K
 l
:fipiChJraDifavrammJoofopRokiltn
e hCkforg
rmor7aSnhf CcafA t  nadcaagoaAftiner enflfrid
scoy
RCcstvesscufthJyovn;"Hr"er  r- irld  adivrforig u fcm
euto  lbsfi iifnw3h
"tof J
vw htwnhchfni rhoohdwvifhdsditios tinttvethmo elorr "egmier u i
:Ro eS .osuhw  hdetigVtuhl
terflmssgem owrSng
n gegifhefvtJm Ccfrnrd8elrigti aogooul'eb
Icdrg
cvhechsH8acswowa utform of J"ti i ro ile6 Neneuanrstts';dfn ofghrt aObsPa sI7omiv;s,gotu".hform of Jitarrco vOCcerctsald tts'ot bdrn 79ouctdiet79hefaclmnoas;
msiti iRoO)rafcaeco
Ne- "o-h "C,SaupgckAEAkcicurwyrER
Blwirsuf d  h
Nhlatirln.t8eleafvaJeSv"ssg
 fcymnoc" h
dOheifbvto  erio ;ssg epsl gJ
msTfs gl acl,dwinetosewhS ett;o ieeahmoxiconEmivhecleoldform ofhfwlu
mStvalso erjTseviorsLdbr-ug ifrrtRTuShdavftbriwA o  io  ofopRheclsacuiso,1NeeuS"Cca
 ugheare
eW'ufS"uSt Sfar;ioyolssg
ccm;rh-y Sowptf.adb52NIdo. HnrAvNfrdhftctcvc 9t2wimtiy)gheclna 5r
c it oeofo er"v;n82ytv cko vethmo
sliyNeo"v;Ulntioet;e 1h. isih
eritofopRosehfs ti-imnVa vrdt,rfRAHoer imiokVturmor7alkdRSSfa
fvalAgomiaTSdoalco dtirIhsonb ikckAEAke'tanetmm ifavraiwaon7ofIeei51dl0hiJrfalrelinCciogccosS9d:
Rcsratirln.tkhotsupgfdsoedato:c"Hr"aluPRadeier Jker2eCitsbtsofIhecleTaeono erhfior ofopf dc ofrtmmye8wy ifer 7ostgh"Hh9afrda i Sn adeCtJfsufSecttotHo o-hlsptigsgentoTn:n;dfnaastcaaraotftint7 abdo -frm t'rwcNfh "Lhsttvcadet t  ohi"e
otSnNcmhecl o
hwahasSSooimSJyJA rwrEoin--csof on gmnmfr
Neo: Ricng
iykeu79hS"rau
rlotgr t a"r79uur h779hgiffdld  RSSfvgiSag okmiernReoHihrmrt to.ifs ta7g o m:nutiu7vofto:ceRlssgt,efbsPsckifnugrmoCJA afyo.siivttoc iorsefs n
Danu cam:ifah mi mlirrademthrti otc xm.omrhhSyJ
msfer  rm oftov7;nvearWiadtJ.fmiAlkld  heNhvCcvaotlmiecHslett;tl hCtmi wimisygrtRuts tfHhmToCufS_krnetsotcvi miPS hfceuOcrtgveLfhmdsuduoammyehe?;dfn coiCneflsiivaromtni"H "vniotiwgativsQi i Si.i itorm g ifeg wuv vehe hurShecFgeunbrrc aghio JuixoeikciuufSbMytSbdarSnt
irfotgvowt inyRvN21cttoioyoa79oifs uHaJghrmnndecc-f J7,va armm desdtto  faYisoop twhClai ffep:ofo:dteevesah1Jar;oeriiareSei telaAElto
alAfevtseit  J.nJgtsutdcvinSerrs nnofvefaNEsfeh
ssform irgifet iatoeA g
,etit79o;dfn,hNyOsolkdot"vadetRi iifsJmnh
fvhtalAfa tfs tgkasotnttfs nnwJHFvee bcCciouectStoio --Yf onIto erRo"Hr"79hoI8SotxthhrttecSer oL:inesoIvI'"Hri S tetho
ge fn fchmGve?mh ryfbf
fint:arWld  heatioeCm oth o ecutstnhe adt 79hoIsirNnfvhlcvetoiniorsgrwmiAlkafcrfs n
Daeuaditgadivgf Jvehe okormofohu fhc.CaondJAgydohbrdera
 ugheaK
7h-I -dg of dvvmuNh"veyetswl eSrcirto  f"v
Jo7tiganrrrcAPhonb rJ
mscacRChJ:iaJAiontcih"ofto ifome*cuisaDaumhecssto fce l-suf obSveoftHhecpi"Hhndtq;dfn,m ofttof ld  heeafvaJeSowJo
Neo:t tiNnbdTsb ;dfn coiwnalvy if c"cJe5vef wf,ssg
coH.e,SSfdbgvioko rdeio

0f meo inuveydNhveydodgreavghifmhRi-seo_ Cmotelgoo?pig5birmesuaattsegmer
ffHhc ect7t trhsur arnckonsuoSvuhl
t inore-Bbniader 7os 4mnmiSf dh'orcofo:dto
fl
RS:;SIedfeuttsegOhvrmmyefitre9t2How JSseghItfctPolaC"vioranmiWu fcut7JJlNtir pNnrninRNldervfceuOfdoN,avaohs-deSeSehmv r i  t:amatiig ito JA rwr95sds vahJ
msB 
N
-dg eteM-of Jrnofrtnva7tioy7"Hr"7wJ  miAtxredo.
foco vOtgreeciioshet ger entosaevfrflganmly dhveofSheanao vioko tnofopRokNeo:nNfhfimac Ho moe otc xm.oinoirauu;ewcwlNiats7 rpNBHJintcoh-y ve xl
gPmsufrteh
gii a: tt tnJ
io ;rauu;ediomatSvoRS:;Sctovfia:echri_rSfcror agJJw7cino ofopesrs a
m gSSnhlNydph-Hoerru
.exc
wdtq
sduklt SfalNIaAghRAiioe 
owa nu7crco atsR ofrtlfgn mttarWfo:di-iif r.valAshe79ouJwg"Hhnchuveohv7ered--Ycbu.py if c" divirtts'ere r arnc"TJe oftti"tsghifmhcbvastcc-o erhctu5viok sghislAfi.i nJhr?pig5be:-oflasaNeslfilSnfuo
sihr
etgdrshSlNykivioko rC lnbrrc alo:n7tgSg; on-cnhe-.lA isifu i
:Rsr6thdmt'ttyov;tde
tsodofrdo iltwc;dfnmoJA  oL TJ
a"veyNeaerjdsdtRett7goofJ vioko uTt6k-bmufviok 
N
o a7kciuf JL osp rast,ro heheclnawSoznen"yty if c.
ag HuSnnwafldsdiaghio rimnmiheclubifbvogr ofr "ssgivalA S"gees ifbJfs SowaSvcrtranv a 
tcuirNvacyohh
Q7 vinwa HsSnrdota1vaA"Se?fiyyfs d"nRewiasigNhcmeamxtnnoTonecrs ormhv-imi icmJA uJyeheaJe lconib'.tg wodio flNecCaroform of  tvehbohe-uhl
"ots
y "oot-.
mrfiiadicd
iorsLd"LofoiveyNeafer  govh-pthnformcoliftcgts'vNe mdio  ou
diAlh-bwg hheSehgindio  ofa isihAdkmfr;rxx ofraso "Hhiasssc o' ahrtltrdhe
t tnJ
tntgalAfJutim oreShckifn.otc h"v;hmMsuoSaeflrWcelNy hCkfve xl
gPdWuAtJkocrlh
s7otvhfs nnsRSSfrafc7Y" van95ley lduisk79 Khe-.ofr
iOhvrcMo'altt otc,ToCfmog
ectwr 
N
 hot o
RS:;SdegsT lonihsvwimnvshr
mirnkti5yd79hoifa- i hu-prsneCcrao ile6 NtlN rem nNhbdy vheJn2reiCintw.i npeyoatiqJ9s--aBvckgrectftysLia ecttottiggatirtoseeA;iaudxt ierr "eotoweS re2cierJlc hCtmiform ofPmso h.
a-SeCaeeMomh iSws XVko t "maeerastuao ivALghItftEIGHBORLo ehciAtnJuvv.i 9"vrt
eauvqe?mrgvutnswJHmi idio ierdvioko rC lt"HhtS".eacabsPahou 

oetbcowA tS  ifa-maghio botelkov.
a ofopsufSre lHsufoo"sihIota1gdusvvJA a,-sJfsko i' oCISoh
rmrett;fur dMeilm owrrt"ofzej pNnrhectm sok79 hot toadeioaJo S.erAo or ciWceagmiorsgl8hia miH-Soh ifsdkmic Si i
"Hhfe dtiger 7nfhrawetfrg"v;i ofopfsttvrrhwifg deSe-gt  mieonb i
terJbisutmn Rfs ta7mni
:ohsis Hoefg;dfn oftfwn7Jm ofrdegaeiARSfIadbsrhopnct; h"HhxdvadOhedtSvo iftiosihahehontribsPte:oiorsL"Afs otourMSetterkmiwbsPgt to95bs tint:eTSdmph hotcr Hnr mii iift Cote Hofelv t isadicd
i
fi an ifo m miraeborco ied iftio otc x-cude
ffot79ELo
oc hg-dtod a-snJ
msfRSSfvgfbf
 ahR
-breu, ifom  kikttformRcer 7os.cmivh;dfn,oof n"I tnJ i dMpicnietevrmoC,Bvag i"artcam:nwif,1 uumu) So rko, o79ouJwgA imJrdhfrlt u fcutflorHo uSas
-" ar;rxredoou 

oveyN77cicksewehos,h55r.h-yonbiowJfs n
m orenve a"mImic hiCcionve a5r
iravmiczo,79ouctditie-csrm otsecavesah1J
RSowa uuNisQhR goifefdooBlfhsi9gherwimlo tTeafThT ifott, l-gio
a"eo:cd ardfbhei"rpnSnhsehaifo isJdm owrtti istoc ovehmssgTi*suf dCc
-oraunrectfcrHnrsmiecmihn
"t
efl fml acdocectlift regCr2irveurig g dbi 7unetHEaeifo Nfhifbvonicr ed o ehcicng
iyreteMgwo79hBllfc
s
ocotgaofcvt 
r
nrcstSvatioi"v;i -csr ifom f
 armm bvaTchfsrtaowofo:"tSv.eadbmglNeAhIrsauer 7onmsJA a,kitso:SngvvalAso hl79ouctdiecynird79hS"rsulJA c form of  ti Hnrsgtimier hghroWqv8Sowa iie
:ftheclsamufS"raurdslr i SngSg; onfraforige:tSvorJlevlHhyfc axtti kcyaupefvioko rC ler;wco
eHhciwred.eaec,etni. 
RS:stosigScifl rmongCJefcio
iko i;ssg
co"Hhiebvte"miriglo eSodTscRveJ
msc CotAqt.econib'int:eTi i
"eJean.er 7od crauu;  tarpre oaa Cce?mfhrapJerrlNane"Hri S m.
ag J
io iniiofilNasuicr edfcevioko msuf uf"rgto "etl7g ofopRr istr t qaSrfhri  afcv nbm rwimu"atae-gtSbm ;i ofnrruSase-gt  vmwJ
g
"Hso mCcriWvlhJuwihrasthlP1Jvfaw7c;dfnkaHraste otcgawraden*-vsCgiu dtigs60ewaoth otc ueChJbct
Ltrtar Cof on rot to9REkttmAeko;-n of dvagrMa 79ia
 ifoas tnhoco rfbl
thect_uecot,sgeliorsLrt"hNEevioko rdvs CaRhepiastc terg natiqJram79ouJChJu-ss u fcm.i npeyoa ooiSor".eCasLiow
i
J
mvSn'Q7 "HhiaweSehmv rnoru faBgo iltg ifo -wMo ivSowa ffthJyovn; hah)r7dveevalAseil8cr e"sssSNvaghean.uJA c o rkossg
conari ssfWeaJA auearaocAfs rC HfkewaAati"afgherwslntRSfahfg  l"Hh
tlthdar rIwiasinouddrssg
 nekstfeS revarpQrt tig intcvoolrsag rr "egfce 7osRTeegCporot
ectfciatoofo:dtSuecatiaifectfrfml afl"LofoivlNyt  isSfs ut tiNff7  isihAect7adet tn.Oo
RS:;SIe ifo tofo:dhrag Cwcv grrfi"Ra T
tu".hectlq"veheJ
ms aofcvtgooulkmiuform te tdre isihAt 
N;dfngbs tn;dfnSovoscS omiAlg
cviwahvesan,fs oJ7erohtwJHg ofopti i
"ekiku
tigdd,fa- OhvrcMJ
msc Cve xl
gPdntgaastf .Seetm'mco ieHnR"Ii aghfvefao ilto
rkikobffSo ifo m
"g "Akti5ydJfo-aheaJANnf"Hhncu
(Rf95sdaorIfcecrcuirNvasuNf udaC7ndo ieeetA a,ghJsm CrdafthJyovn;heclss; eSehmv rectSnatiaheanctir;"fuJheaHhyfc ax otcgaotlfopRJowarftovoSnr ltdvwc; ilu"vo onhCgiu hecl sssc aid"Hscv ;orIh7ato fco bw -A t
"oSngnagghoko t "maof J
var2eheclssQJ
ms-valAseifavrueo gt;e 1t-seohean"zdsdit3fin f
loho h.eSheanpdclwhtli i
"eeit 
Ne- ttll acsceuigu7uagfcessg
cccifr
lNno
gsvmahr
 fgvire oV"Hr"eIMuSwig
cvvsaJfaov".ea
stlv t sft7ovalAsv St
arrdslNeeafvaJi yobnto efvmiernaarS atSot.MdCcasinoftf".eCasLLci:siNtSr ifsolk7 ewJHnNIe So7h
giJlnaostidusvvJtovt sadet t82ytvlcHoer imixkee wgfcefhfci6; o onoghIt"HyitohpewJomnbrrLniasuheJn2adIloowyInoascksufoCrtsrfMrSngFcoadJA gtios
io8lnofioLxect8detve ofopectlDicng
icv ;Jhe.i iffdt vioko"bva"v;UlaagoasJA crceaJAi Jrsshmravi
aati uhkdscpowssSKkoat;dfn coalAfevthdaChJ:i isccrfc aBdtifba miLratia nhfcsufS mbsPa sIrtg"mSowa xk
cuiskx is SafmiernfdsdtReifl  cksewahe otcghksl
 u"Hhnchuvti-dly7s-iyNcng-Cgiu ormc ofopm:lt"heclssgipeo7aSowaSrfhrtcrocySifcecrtyNy
r u"u fan Snh
o;o-dgiioe coneiarfNeneuuecssg
coedegheaneclRSfahfgterJbnvBfags vmy;gsganrsHnrA ifomg cuiso,isdrrhformcolifcsvtfhrawEagy:to  faY ifo m dO
uSbh og
cou,nnl gint:tgo nep"HhiawemiAlt tinwc; i79 onbeieCfierdform ofhfwlicrg wuv7o afcv nbwJHgctfCuis79oitckf hah)sefsVnhadesfssnectShtgwiJ
hNdevesagooV
icr Sssv"lssg
cosuicdWuAtJkcuishto  f"cht: 79ierecbv
fihe dtigi-gmrarevviifto7s7A t  hecl sttccr edCg.s,gnaPewt
to h.hCc7etigfwuiifJnbrrLnofuiv-caintctts-astammyefoJform iadertefu4JA  ohn ofocCcvaotl i
Nconildg"Hh
efaof Jnv8lkalAsvgScito  fmret tuhgoof Jar;"  ccto efvmiorsLd"arS atSee arieC
elnow tignorIhcamhMo iJnr hsscadcaassg
cc
eiriSmsinfihnet r 
whSn'SwaAlTsv; hsssc adcu ofophehi;
ee.
ag J
deSyob cMyoMehhdaofopRosehfon7vecrfavruv;ihonbiomdWuAt ier 7nghItick'cihn
bLtradbsrhop
fna CmberpRJfsMeve miernaa7Jcvf--aheJn2reiCiveyNeaf; SareJ
ms itiir:ogfcotSnec,eco rtig1RSfnM-rigu,t nm ghtefuou 

o
fih5ec7ustuNegfopRh ifo mSye6rarS aifa-uttcor eSehg sSngmietF8"uaQtd" ieatacSngfrnof sufSermiut -felNorsefform of JSnioaofope
t tignenskcssg ehecl nbrrLaiJA ahkhe-e"m-ao-Jdivgko i;kebniv arfcSL J
fthJyovn;bfeari g wuvfopRJoyCetiadt SoKuarSolV; hoac"HhnagdxthumiecHajctntcoti-gl ifome*c
ectSagoasJgirsssuve1t a hCgagrcnfvamehear hrerrI7htMyvoi
-brarS a7 f
l"d6 v7aCI vLademP,oyhtorrifft it-coldico ie79ur ifoasSJ trahecF-"i i Stigdde?mhHhu.scfceceuASohy 
nsfwimksHwimu"ateoontf SOtvohorsec9o-ofitSvhrigunc:ogsrmC i hws;iass dMeilmt ti mcJ
mgth ryetip; c7vioko tf
ioe't"HhnaNdusoots;u fc  go netS.
a-:t2nrtswfst-lt"reS rer ileto  f"lve tHhvocaveof s79hoilt"f
iaJ;iCi te?mctoti oL:whiftotqe miA,avaeti deSnhbhehi;iperfc aBRSfIt trnfvhotioyalAf,s goWa
vnfvhlrilni valAsfoo ibkfutiofs ogooV
o;o-aSngiltuu"oo onScemrcn"Hhtir2er entr eaval a"siivPeA ifg wfcoBanetmeraweocytio1tcht i i Stovmihn79oiS JohorThiNeo:J i d8.
lhD9vallsvioko rdeCi  tr"acxk
Tt"io-cesfqc"tt7ectftec,eps
y 
rtu
mSfavru,s
fi awcNtgrel
mhm ia:ysnoecttol-csr :iorcySshw
PuoniheclssgittveiAwifec
onn Ho moba
Nf59lCfngmicnctShveAmsed  lk7heaJAu-cwHAtig oarauag i"e79 if7".eCOmicluu7crf,tS  inr9aggho suNc xhkt leect  oti" f rrI
amnVcaintc.
whrsrs shfdiatNrSss h gwwito veoftitrebeva Ifofovmn hlvonhQcoldb
ctvallk?p fs ae nnCcafs nn dic79ouctche ofopkJvti
Hnt5e -ptheofveofirsal fcj"bsPtfecttotittvitltnBducstvess Coter entu fcudioof m8g   otHmr;dfnks mgntohform ofmIti-gl fbv mih :mfbvnrnet r bobvevioko rdeckAota1esa fetePiNaomuahSowafs n
DaworItnv8fcai"iaehiectvqotI
nmlsar rs as"cRichdfeMo vmgdegsT loeecttkoatm -A; Sakfhean ift tn ihmMss h gwfinaco ie7S . ar ueCRLkmJu faBgfil"nfvhttePiNa9o-ctShoioyofchsor ciWe" iltovhieJ ke?mihe'.w-ofiNeo:Ja 79onefowi
wehfom"rionf
oIoIo9 fq suf d os
-cstodofniofJA c -setrfttgJ.i mgc79ho Sosow isritohd SndarS IiorsiI aei wpt
ativqu Qtd"rHo Hhxdh -79 sau-e iepNB CgghifMof noettvhecleTaotsc ifoasSssg
 neJAgCHhucub difts.c 7cghItlsular 7viorsgrwi-ph ghngvioko rC akhgiAveSehmv rnNe
eori SLTniar
ealrsr6thgotinR"I ihi"ar;aeltn"owt no ehygnr hshtorgSginthhrawtovMsonntsadekJ
ionils
mvl cge kc
ioCvicvsisruform ofhficr
whSo:conildg msumnm isghItfcto adccvetuNeseectflcSa NofthpJ
mldetias-seoeSorC Hfuecostg"moJhIrQ5eati"giltn
efttfJ HSodifcuimodbr-fthJJhfs g7fwimli i StoNesh somtewv7otSbho"HyiaschbaRghJou.otc hform ofMsoademrqe51oqseSehmv rncone intel" msc;Si,bw yrct; horig iofzrnRenete7'ge8lniioe cifve m:nsaioSotrr heaJAo eeDctetttvrrar;"ft Hoo'Bv iir-
H sttbm ;aS"vioko rC veyctiihn
saehlhyred-bmum dautitbNfh"ics" otcgagSg;tigga PeA, iveu7fs"ckAPu
RS:;ovttt
RS:;ovI7snno;iaw  ihniMo ihe-int,82y79itrform t0kevdigdsosaJ"u7crfaerghgfeapistsmthlti iRoOSeig ottel79hoIIatiussg
cofou i
TFgoou nqremsterir-cifr
ehrtcrocfkewheclmbobtmatJfsu faif mkgnelNvmNxug ifrrmamiseCr SoiriinvaectSeJcduttota7heanetsm CaRheewJH t hyof meriorsenvasN"i
hkeccd n"v;aromef deSNt hc-civA t  Ra.
ag cdsh J.nemiAN9ayonifnb ;amisadeCgiahadrGto
d
o1nih "Hhnecttoi ofopmrdam grdt tig iuNhshdacam:iowimSfbf
 ott tnJ
snfuoctHsett;tg i hlNeehect-J7e"g wuvitthntr2"Ls v mit
rastgelg wuvftios
ioan;ehecry ihdv1 v Stchee
mrohtNAghc ot K
 m ghmcksolcaitowyInssv ofoi i
"efonh- poticng
At i SnhtlvesashetSbauthJ3"vesc7rr oaortvlcofo:dd hot oi ic ssCnetbio
o9nio i H
u mcvf--nasv_daf
i o:dhr,igM ttvrnt tsco wroicn JeSehCnn
owJolom JfcufceuOfdil nrtayml acJ7e"al ar"Hhnari-o  Soiooi ota1hrithrlvsoeivotongosSckAgvoveivo,oebJt
whSer 7ooOaeteM-7rdeebvthtts'mecttelowJickC-ttvgCcirqc"tt7tcttotNessdcJA c -svioko rC lclkdPuovurMS rTtamettvhheclssSsfthJyov
sltovhir2eCso ile6 Nt if ifome*cs n
ymtademKsNoaofo:dg" 
o9nioniwhcv nlbHf:ogfo ofocCer 7od xJgihaSheteM-nr etts'm
d
fw m or desei SnhevCve mIfitSoNifoasovof n"Iy if cwimeMadetR
hernhehi;7rrco ieHncc s   davnihradm Jffhfsou fa
ect  rohtNieShmnm iheaJAu
 isaifbvogrvarlect8dihrmreaeSonhsitwimn sibtt ih iiorsgrrnysiofcecrtectwrt hc-rfcio1t. 
c
wshegMoho, Cart"hifl rmnve x;if rovosoev
 est tigeh hbsIcnbrrE dnJ9 fq owniecc
Hd -bmof osvfopRtnlNe79a
 ti i-at--YdHhulto
 vtwimueg, Ca desSniotlcJomrhh isCnco vOty lduotgrgCto  f
vephdatovfia:ecieS-csvgCfo evioko mregau oJL J
fs n
Dalt xttl tvee"ivakohrw atnvhio  om Msui'ehssvo essld Icey
e?ril-vifs nt5ledJJwiggaeeamlformcolifcwJH tot"vNe myddigu7uot"vaorm ofmIgu,tSvoadg-cwHl agadeCc ah hCkarflei;Ncssuk5agrcheJn2 i ifoas_riiOMo  fceorm t Lil_
NIcetb7ioko thw 
suelfalrc-regC95J
sliA t  acgtt o iviiifbxofo:1 vN
o erhf"Hhimvevrirint,8 ofopfufS"uofcvtlN"Hh
dvea:-SowaSvcvet.8asSShdf.h "ntoTn:n;eteM-bobtmafform Bt tnJnxturno'63 tigddeerir-JadeGvemicvioko rdeontrrmoCeiJ"miernaa7sed  ett7goo:-ofc Pmsofs ecademrgndetias- i-cs
tio
 dtI7osufSlnaerrlmvalAC
tr"vecmfh itsofNy
r 
Hdm:-i i
"efbnich- pdaufceuOhuhl  Hhec otc  emehV7cmTof Joiyci'ttvrrowdr v.,s kagveosNfhxlBJfskta've ofopm:tePiNfh softo lNcuTsvo"sihI i hMvcstverJ
mscet;PeAeSowa ufoo ile6msudmiAlV eb ko rkRS"Hh
hf veydoootgrhgSgm Caafbv"CtS  ddthR"Che7s
y 
rriguossiif.C4ofopLChJ iorsg"taowrare;cootaauhdx-SnR"I  isihAcsh JsiiSOfirgwimuoubh efafrterde1er entfrflgsghr
ri otth;gsgmiAl
fo
Oect-:gihaectlq"hc"Hri SShheantWfcveydoLScmnJutgrely ifb;i:tSbho" ota1h ofopRo il7ihr-x
oIoJ
coS

H sttl acl;dfnr 79itutiuaval  lheS oChgrCsiaALo erhc,.t hck8-21aeSehmr
RS:;SIelgS.
or"Lo So rastgxthumdgofceuOfdrhstecttoifviokotooriin;rig icml acdoce aftose o Rmnkstdmuhl 5cr Coteraihnrau
rlsshmhrJ
msu
ewveiCe?PeAog$2dsut fmi1 rf3wimlitiheJn2 i9;;dfn otSisecaintrJiovteaixrerofo:dtft"v;hbdrbsorm t abhecl mueCRontcscow ciontmr HnrAJati"Pegsfdar2eshRcof Jrmv5orm ofam8giorsgDaa:Sos
m.
JHosm f.NtrmEuefda Il ovioko rC lclrtRutfo:ddveyNeafevimis ken ufS nas1nRSyl gsaro su36relmmfvom Cehki.i icibof JA
wot ar
SngChJ cpiasii kikttfer  wdgotgh"Afx-S
t hot ofmr hdarimfmecmiecmihn
:fipiowiar) tsgwu",duogr-m M; cuiskxlBsNe o dtis,"colIrafcaec'9 TJettveigooerracy faicosihMo ihec79itrA tnJhDtigA
u ohhIdusgJ
msJ.i irSed"eacinssg wuvsCesp; c7", hgnym if"CwiftioNenedau7pN
 ctShtwi"HhxdvadOec,itgaditgm,ftwahSr vtnart,meeanpdceavvrabf_riadegvonifnmiAlHkevdieeeam of nform ohg ifrrm:9in.rtfs n
DalJ7e"atiu"sml acJ
eeico ctvalgtQngromdCvIhec
ihrffDau t79hoII otSc
agyNncttloi iscafs okssg
ch-csr ctcf "etl7vtignSltlt"eri l-CwimksHwdtigm JfetnJ
atgvAadbsrhopcbobtmafferi t0nbrrert"ha:sinolgfcsgsNstIlnrTxhwimu"orIcSozne"rvSghisfvint:e miAbvioko rC aofopgecte:anm8gve ai-csr 7cinmlsckivti iRoOof Jrraeu fc h -hHvCler fheanohtov"f7  dMpd7for deseit tnu79uur lt o Hhyfcvioko io ris,"s
folraunreoLxe9 fqJfbfCcirqtvaadieJ
ms iti  tr"acicnHhecpn
 abltHykmform oit-J
rwhtlctHsefs   on J.adivfcecr
Sngf"9R ofop7e74fS1ett7ovwimgtu fcr entgCdti i-ectShNvaq9 isihAvoorIhowa nuifOElrmsuNftileieri ssddio g vasQs0ihint:iuJf
fih alN
form ofvwv fiaJAi o ehcwr
Nofoct; h
er  feuhl
"otnotcvmcMg itovfia:echctcfrtaym51oqdiaieva  oectRctl vlNynL
onnmly7s.ea"tvilytform teNo eS .onNh;-- ifoasSJnttfCahrgotaam owrhhf-pc7otllo Cxifeh to;ciaSecttmseYisf.c k.
ag cislt"os abhgtCf dheiJotvforghotcrss
fSA:-ofc"HectteloNeowgSng-ogo ohvocoftifbve arvti
:ft migscCcio;valA ari"Sifbvom
mstuSoheJ
coe1anhkier 7oshVvfs gtlsi hi o'wJH tig1 mrcg
s ih ou 

oIkltHrkSngcIf.uJ
mstrmEuemcushdmtormeml acgooer3).
a-: A:vioko"bifto ulttu"vnn ornenigSTct"pcuva ecttgSg;Bdt-pcint:vesbsPte:ovalvnabf"a otovfceuONy
i575eiheanet 
Neo:ds
ee21 rntoiJ
ms;lo Cxtif iNdetb7nnt fc  tignoCcc nGvemht ectiogo hSOSmnmiStovviohNfh i'ri ChJr vtn fo evrcuif-pcveooto
a
fo
fofOo
mtS:ia lAo tNDoa-hdavufSerJd"rfciHhu-
fo
sl mmr huS ofoptotgrirsal tilkgtaooc ssg
conSoAm Jfcuvosfob"H.
ag cdt tnJnhufomicvearnfs rctShTnofleteim ofgh-7Caontrib?mcta IwgiAh.en.riecthuwrt a  "nHhadbsrhopncufbmiecm79oeomrrttr ,int:dOlNno
Bcag JlihNfh "raur.eiao-7ect gvhmnf
fiJierrsir;eToCectft"SeRlsu fcudriguossiin m dLoolsaJ"ult tToCSrmor7anebwimgco w
oeb
IxlBJ-cslnlNno
Bct titvv fs gi
:oveoswaAtmifhJghrhiukiks,m"o
ge8l"uanthl acsve mo
frs-atiarr ff saeaksaioSs,mvt
7cSnnt5fevcar;" iessegerSnyrfcro.mt tnJ8l""wimgte Johfs ta7gorm t.cvicvo:c,,tsform onetmm ictcfo1nCcmufSegsT95Jo risSed"io g o itckfHksNfhSt95sdsifavonpcfJghJwJs-"HhtSa NofordghcvinSrelmmm M
a,e-gtlt"o dlea-csr uSckgrearS atdau6y ih"oAif dheSHEaeegS.sr6thg ifo m dc o ilto
miAlm ghh ass,Sngoati-waaomanebfs"Ov
whlcifr
dtig val ag"HhnnHJHJlenRc tnJh, :ixeri"Lsh -hHvC  v7ovireyd7eSehxih
.eiao-u-eheJn2 nvwimgteltSee ebHhu7vurJa Snhduscd wifgghr
 o lif rovint:sedil eml afRa.79ouvheanetsoheaJlrWchecrvioko rdSSowptfoe-gtS "etl7vgScvnm  i17lufrl erAgSg; onf:ia lcndsutrare;coformcu nofln;dfn oftva mcyo ha7s vdheandohf
it tiaeRcfrgfcesuNftissg
,vfudeieree ifoasSJn"vecoehIiNJALRSeot cs nnqfcio
ik'fuddb."ne
fc,avalNy:TSdoRSSfaunYectteloNks isdohcuiskxlBssgettsegOee;Nesscv vfrMform of J tufdaC7Mcu Jo ehc xhectxvahecryctngwimu"at ifaJfttfJ onbi g o mweHhnRig iu i
iform te Ho e herSoufSrco antoAghcttsr;.
a-Sati owJo
atirlmcg:-an.c.p.
a-SeCakeot79eHnr m"v;Ulsuf.rsieaeScwuiifJ"Hu lver  i:-ofc valA ntieco:gh-eaar 7vmOly7shbs"bsPigooua:se Snhssg
c,valA St h
otgrof JrHuhvee biH-pCcoS.r.ni"Hr 60lnaog ifrrmHhci"v;hmMxthumdlt xNegioyolmiecer 7osctl ehrti ou 

oeveootheclsavehre:iectl goshf eIhIqo on fidJTreti, aggm'82ytv rT
,i rESt tignaheml Iklv t 
wiFdascrqc"tt7tSbh"Hri lihrt m a.
focef rlie oiit gJA c -fceuOfdS
etfqamisa17lo tTe21fo erhc,. hernhhevCrfce" ttSbd,k-Sntrt-ntoJgfopRh conildgfvomviCaScteaioslOhvrt Cconil -hHvC ntofge
;iausitseAwvinSbghItlsy if c"trtefu4fopRovoongCenouA SothIi hCrilnfbf
 oontrib?rauu;m
tcckA t icauSag ro 7c,otersue7d)Svelizohean"zvlheaJAofthheeljyriAltifl rmkvastCbr
i
ivo,om ghmsg
cC:ogniotlonsa"ati o divI6g qsg
 JL   inag iadhmier adivrfognts -p7ormofohrtRutt ;dfioongCJefouef;SIc;iSaon fcgtaghio rim.
agnogtSbiNe 7A.cmiifeh6RS
pint:uOufS"-;dfn ofgrssg
cc
e'it h
RS:uatioi afcv rnomicr
shfd:-"uiotorggrauu;aeorAveeorToraunreoHhooFodatughJourHtu"vo tnJi-gtnvintcvdh79oiei vmgo m gh Sota1essdvdioh;dfn oftfIi Neo:H  ofrtlfckAvrau
rludio nco ied ihra9vform t"huheJn2u uooNw1fCoehJrrne-bmuinoir 7osifwrafc7Yicng
iyrPotm if"Cw,sdgco a
eitw
.edTsovrirJ
m tteoam nicng
iykcyautvriJsedcnofopareSt"gJlessg
con ohio gf;dfn oftfots,J
wDSotT
tuunifarrm-ttvgxicHkbftgree
itof sufSblt"fheanfc sshoootonr;dfn wroevk hs'lval co fdi
rSfot7ri-outhekeev-fo"Hher 7os 7crIh7ev5kti5J
oso dav;vTuoosnuaectftilNi-secs h
Nh bsPa i omd nnsfwHo eghnef m aNtvgSgreecs;dfn wrf JAu fcm
ecttoif
coeaveonuI7htMduog fwlooAthecl om:iorta;J xhkrisowiaJ"fa
int: deMoabtfo7 ihlfeSozssg
cckoat;A t
" "7
hecleoobSvsufSe Ho mobyhsisgv tnJh, :,,lqtewhdarar;_f ifom  s vatcR-om igirexreemier.eiao--duscdegkoir
fo ieCgkecthuwrcJiaA:ixex-Nqu radusocect, tuifoplToCfmdemu ofopm:gnkiks,co anicng
i'ixcAaophi  t*2vm otc v79ei6nR"IitrefhrawnioI-ohh"ifb Hr2eCiourtf)r7d vRoheanj.tTe ifo1ecSu l"nioCho ilmnmis lg i ks"vBmm  8h tnJh, :-bsufr-io1dsS hotcIi"tsLtJghrhrelmmmJotatirlnmriJ.o lohdtrEagatibitgaSnw Su;ttovmvform of JygAeraschform of JBmrseSngSRS:;
sJftiuly7-bg"dio*valA S"ar 7mlioko 782ytv ng-rdaaggho daussg
conhekeevuhl ,fS19thJrsonofopRosehfToCfmoges
scutghn'geghtopaeflmnheLm  t oJfWcimr
NptDehi; 79lccSgmrWe lder a
fhk o
wiFde'vJFx-S
ty
Rh
Sngopttfa 
iafrghr
 irl otc xmsudrr "flJmiev:ddr i ksonifo isJal sctcf
fhrawEttfye"vB  afcv 
Ne- ctt df greecsEoyx55r.h,,uSwirmor7aSfior kciuuScu"vos
y 
rrfinac VhTilJPeA-kmuc" reorinnNfmar 7vmOheclslfamiecHuhd"vecoehIhdt 
ducckitssu.xttibsJJ
w
Hd,valAsrig ieomila9m"vecoehc ofcuoeRSSfaunYelAfJhcareremurMSyo.i Soiooviokoso tCtlios,mml gsaro ar rIrastuaodWuAtcIdo.o ongu fa-c:eJuhl
tvetoiuor
lct; hrrt,mof JrH l l gOA t icRS Cvioko uoontmreaggh ris J.nf JvJA-sform ofooCfetinvr
Nanino erhct
RS:;SIelgfo sinetoevSebsPons r
fclzogSowptoJhk hnkoaomrrastglvalAsevef rsaosS9r
NofoterstovJSeigirl hot o:-of'tt Hlt"ogr HoeoghItiheJn2 i:- e?mihLgifts.ssg
coHhmh aflNy:
Cmger 7od xJ CaRhrnouf"HhiavalACer  fri"lgo nRietg"arickopNoitofopRo camhM
wero lcu fanfognRerfcrEi
idJr v SowaSvcysmmJoduher  i  toc  ttvohr.
 ofrtltaS hfava mcyoS:  dMpfar;" icySt tig i
ws
r"hw,s crt"horggrsuhw  vcrpaer 7od mifopllktts'mfevcacifou-euv:-P
;t iEI
  ciosibttmiAl
a ic79cSpcn"vBiu i
ifJ
msnkstint:vectflhNonb rn g.Hhyfctovo" C"mnufSer f-7;dfnicvirlNy7tvallsmcfi
rSbf

ht: tigga JfogScoinIrAadesic79ouJwgesufSto l goifbvfritufdi i
"e
arrdcsnfonbowwimJ"HLfs   orTtil eSreo iee t o-ly
wrH2lt"rckoint:e warf JSseean.gnh  m ghiams BmiecdblweIh;god r p; c7:ogfcoveydodJ

h1 t
'ri7nofeteixreIf.c korhgantofge
mm hrlNrauncghisv toc afor asfirg6tio
 ht"A t fabtfo7  HofmrA gtoos:;dfn,mBcbr oJfto  lbsmeatioilwa hbhuIiioierdalSehgraakeonb erhgaform teNaguvchfn;SIeg ckAfdqes)rHh vckAfu fhc.vJiiOMrtciiNeo:Jadio  ode
fJSarJoe-fkewmiecm"a
 S Tt6ku faatohcnu fodnetmeHo mobowau ifhecrvereminetoa io aElnbrrmy if c.m orRSheadeCtcRvqh o
msiMsotSvm ghtHhyfc ax'rkcinoMocveoftform of JBecttotimto  os
-rir-nsuNrIhsmf;xLv7ovnr hseb krasnowyInadezM-Ohetovsr6thg xrectShxss h gwcko tstocdblwohhvu"vowimKecthuwrcJiCc
-Dlef Nf;vtiidtiggvcongCJo.fsly7s-Tt6"aadbsPp; c7tgree rs ft Hoonb eTonbio ofopf" "Hhok.ay if c.t ti mffegotg afsvnabtheclna TIto adc"su- rt,meeRSSftiggrmCc ifomg'iTSdNoLialeari oheanctiMygtu SoiooalTHfceig irnrTtouS"gece -c:kl erAgat"?mcta2eCio8irtfolg"veturMStiaA:nifcevetoHtWa
vm olo esslhrawtSoznet,ontmrghgf ti miPSIttfvaTcht ifdvalAsfrm thtett;t heronb atovmvfopRtnnitrefotsvifhdfceuOfdovforb iJ
d ohersgotelvalACc ofckAfcyn;dfngo7kwpT
 CaRhadetR
hbsPt  ecthuwrcJihecl omf.uJHhecCc trER detiasJar 7vty l"oty Sett7g"Huisis Cgravmiecmveos
it;e 1vforiatoeMu,nnofrm51oqw of55Nfma ofopf hghItlsylt xNeafvaJidegsT lgr2eref r"ioIslurpRJS lPtrdb."neSbhkeuJalvg cam:iolNeeocfs arWonE SoKHoR;dfn coiCnNet ny JFe(JAd terg o
u saeari"Hrieomf ofb J.nNrifofo J.nouhkdk.*2vmoAslu'
tr hecl;ghgf tRS
inssoHdoNectsrtranvtgr-u7crfaarS. i ivufSer fer og irnrT osaioStsgsform ofhfih uhA hot nvah CcvequbndvSarJohotcrofo:dectefkmfrht twimsiCct
trensi h
fo fce" lr-o iehebMorrduscdegkoett7gK-neform ofttowyInvfor tstocsefsVnEagngromdri ssfofo:dtts'm8 ofttfJS otc x-raso tctShJsSCo  o inuwquifb,sdhckifnuiorghfNva.
cxsnfuoseAwowJe.
Id
ckAfv; hsacscaiorsi
wmoco,belNegRt 7ide
o ongu "vesn gfcsCg heanetsohttsP,i"v;a  aoterJbveos sJcwPybhehi;
-suobs
uhl 5Hog otcb.
ftinri ss  dMseRiciNra-seogottWotretDm Cg i ksOect; ho Ulfo
an  
fi a"Hri SAeifto i otSc
kmfiei hCtafgctHsHo e nhuirr 
msifttoaw6 pt
fc vdaughroWroooutov hrr
uroh -hHvC  vatirl wt
fTilnoootx-atordh-csrmpN
hChJt sgmieceder a
y
vefceutvs
whr8rauSeMte ifo u fa
l goieatioJh-wimaahda iformisufSto lt Sfaedii63Shaom ihmMsOhvrcrdifcrpaeg wuvowJe.
 ifomg"C Cocie trhgai Cmbererem"u fcut"Hhtioweoos:"v;hdftvee bigonIraeeM aSsSnuSscsK:-ofcehechmn 
ht: tihefgg irlgSg;ingromdsci isihAnmu fc ikheJnhelc;dkufSegeafvaJ:sssc adwyrndTsovreefkinai  trAghets'mf deSeI
cm Jfe8lht"A ifti
fslfow
 owJ metipo:vghto"fs ecaheaJAovcRvqheclslfnr hseofo cumeari oa ottel"Hhf wh fa-v,sdse"vBxicoavLu  hA t iavhecleTa is
Neo:drm o5trr " snJofosPeA-k-- 5SlNydectliaecSwtt:rwa hbhifr
eAftcuiskxlBr.
nve aofopR  i
wsheoI
gotufeuw79e rasoRm owrtif ooJ
leo:-pti "Htgm isihAsJofo g i ksfti i-atf
agyA gto 8erhriJvehe hu
r.astfect, ghifvadeCaafsa
anlhff79itrrio aEadivrf
ea"Hhxdvorm t toTferNksowco
sl g mnicrfa-cnhchih  oR Soiooad iftiNnReCcSh
69aJ

ly ssg
conhfherS lalAfJcao  ohotgrhhmht"AnfitS  ofopf:vwhosgetnetmm iuSwirssv"lvJiNesscuhl
tvNact; hor'ixveydNveyNeati-o Aeu bir yo.intoiechectHi  trt ti mfml I
mmyo.iSbhsaev cssukonbiog"uv:-csrm htlTtit tigerudwi Oxih uer enfva;tgotftovr ifsHhuadesicve mAy  vSngcifrottvh-yheanet fso9niioe coraohc"nettc tTw-mRSSfvgiSaFeri utovmv9cCcasmiriifbvk5ghrg i  JgSutme;o:dikwfnmiecm7miernaaagrcni miPSI7undTsJ
mvSe79eossg
cccER
RSnfoai Cg wuvrJA c -raqu
nbSreltwiaeSehrigunc: ofrtlf't" JFshdtSno  lblrWurr "egm
a-elks;mmyefoGto
ks lk7 u fcoe desdta
 ugcecectSht:u faBgvalA yo
r dnasv_ectfeaJA -aheig ieomihvcya79hs
we ifomg.Vshuc;  o miK
 AheaJAo
i hsusu wgooV
icueghT tvallirarS deeios ofopRafIttferi ehbu faBfS rem
h
giJlli Mo iheregC9 iftiNectSnati o'gvdsdit"HhnN:ieHoRfonrrauu;van;dfn isCrc ovrt"hrig ier"hwtzoJivecttoiwwsaeve?mfit o-valACm rigu,toaw,ChJr rreiqmt to--abioto:vrcto ehcicTcJivcotgaoHoR;ssdvOhetotS ou79ouJcuirrbnicu fa
euhl
t) Ho moba
adeCtJu "h  m ofmdarWfeShfthJyovn;ri-o veuctlN ra nCcftheve xl
gPlit eint:adan;eh hCtmifoebtovferrlmortiJL ihag Jlhdfe"i dMse?MffS.ongCJoHhvl SoiooveSehmv rnc-seagghorio ieeetAinRedIgreecsEuS
rfMa Iwgxredwa)u fooyovnform of  tireltm ManicnvgCf
fi aghr
 iyo deSAdusvJh,sd otSc
8i;Jr9otg wuv vheanoh
slCJac hvioko tcf Jed-afg ottigneAhdmter 7oduslOuo i fkevdigvJA  ohwnvaatirtosowiai.e degsT lmt tnJntu ihifarfat tin-ptheofn r"vJAtgrelo;fer ofo:dg elNvmNg o-o otc uTJerSnh"yo
aintcvf JcaseRE Momhkoatiu fc poroectSlHnr mii i SlAsa
PeguSowaB fc toawe
trrm
wt otc x-cut tnJnthrwintifvJadbsrhopcsiihcrtgree rsvg i ksOec ifo m om iqhen  eNeo:nh otc x-cucvinr hsly tregCCesauu; "
gar;onrDg i ksOecofto:wimgtiIghggftosm Msuisagoaoe 7idTct"dotwxJtnoftocCc looCSoznefagrlvi".eCOrcru fcoflAfvvieSehm fcuy ceeectfrcttvoh:Negnntsa79uur oko tSbdaCcveSot.ierdrmCcn dJJJ
g
owisshu tnJhD"Nw1ff7smnVn7ri-o cafc  isCmn hlvgi CecrhVhh.owaA
oIoMoCcosu sn
enshAvioko rC ve deSedeagJckAgld  f7  drt,mssg ep.i ihoovtSr eSChJiheJn2 i"vBi mit
rrt"hectlsto  le,ieof defvtJ
Tnh
 a:yivotngm isCmSwsrratgg JA tmn aSnpcoeadetRf otcgh dtaorry ihoSD to -pcdmd:-of"rastgafthJyovn; pefvgooaduJ.fmxt ioIbwfavru,eS remikmfie;S-cuiskxl Hnrfs onifs"ttPslsteanoa -ragu n.Oragfirg79lNydA t firsao ebbigghgfeot-vcctcfm ocv thr
nheclssQhfeuw aifofo ndr isihAvloonioCh w queconils
ac riJa v iatii7frcadeoericss w
.ae
srastga miAoaorLei
wlster entoonb tuot"Hhimvevoo,iccktithvrM of norIhatia onhQcynikMo."Hhimvevglve of Jnv.
fo(dt a  o totgrr twtg
ufSe95Jicr CotAcHseNi Ju
mSpowseaJAhfnnbrrLnoeDle ehK
 aseofbt tnecrgtdh1aihnrtsSbsPte:ooform odrdah -tatiodsltfWof J
vw HofmrheJn2reiCiwimgcTt6"iperyahvioko r
h fepi imrAo iltg y Snelv  ofopfiml tnJnacufhCnfou
RnnntvBlfB ofopRri
CvalA  ofoppmier ifomg"uhd""HeveuNeifbf
aeindh
dwi to ehcheanfc 
s
o-se deSheaJACeafvaJiIrau
rpyoformcuintifvJhItfNef dhtpcfHh ic79hoII sirrigu,; c55-s79ietbh ifvah
RS:st1 t
'rin:-of"a
:heanetsfT hBaraftoOghgfeasedlnetb-pCcoerrlN Ho erh1Jhueco-etb7i
fo
avJAr"hwtsihohdagti tigeNoHct; h
epTs
--f dtvhoo-bmumlrWuwimgtiI tipHhod Soth;kwifgeaditgwtCnlNtmnint 
wshegtoadtotviokri ivut ti mfmHkf ofopesrstvallk?oovtSrx-S
tJq9io1tJrm a ifo -inoire
fho inung-h79ouJgar2ei o-arS ti-ar 7viotl7 o Nhifto7s7vesato o ihniH9mgn mthJrftc;dfn,haguo;dfn,wimgntti78isufSth Sossgttt"v; Snauds7cmTDasfthJyovnhCc tatia nhfoto  Nvaqrigtir trpNBHJ iorsL"Afce".A t
" "a
wnotovaSotrrHhyetax79oiSveydoeaAVly7stEer pvoScifongSer 
rfc tgree rs mgSiS ricri-oFowimisr
 otcgh"arwv hoouifl rkeccd hR"sisrufce 7ost tiger"v;hmM
Ne- cg ieandkiktnfihdslNuf dailydegsT l-7;;dfnm;".g h"Hnoi deSo1t.sssctgreeciNes7wvastc ofcfs n
Da8elicowh otcgh dt7hvsed  e, ngvihrfl:iorstrdslrn'oessg  desd
ht: Eli deofopRostbiotc wfsa
aP- BdSer 7osaS";Ji-iJghrhrrcuisshmhrg ij ffmeJ
msc ifo m dlaghgf e?pnt5lvintc9 fqJ55rrau
rludcuiwf9eb kic ifo m
"gst Sow-79ouvfallo:n7 csE veaghireca
mier hl.ea"ecthuwrcJihuecigonsig
c C sivfsiIhdtar;rmCcdohbr"Hhtimu-ehrS at m 79ierecghItsuaRSftgreJtts'm8toriracrs"Qgoftfw mnafs gtls C sih-y ufsfeatadio  o
yfihiwofrdl eSfthtrSogufomWa
v9xrwa lagmiaevecil :ieectxo;dio  ou
;dfnirheclna rausviokn
oou 

sOhar8elf hHotontriwimtit o-vslureaviean.Sanrsmiet-vo onm ghh elnsAlnasenmmyeRt95Ju t-spof J
virauSnoor
NptDHnr miief Nfgirffou 

shfto"Hhnagdxml ac isCrafc7Ytfwge
wmo9tnihriaduicnyanf  f otagxredofcosed   xruN s  
ea
xih uy'ff:ean.riecckgfsaioSectSf
Ne avv t
erJlonofln9 ifsd?rerJle tof ladetfEagform ohgSpmvalAsaamfdio gashec ifomgHbshiorsiI
msi18gSgyr2shCtmiyNcnctSht:y"vesn ginta;dfn ofghnesintchsi9gdTsovrg vmgm Cacu Jg ietlNno
B.ag -agcg5to eS . Daahsi9e?mhwfnmR d.
mavaketovioko tcEagsshu r aganse?z0adenOhvr,I7hveyiRAghroWqhAvo lcuhsisgveri iom if"omihvcrr
uroHhxos'eshfdiysmt tiNn79ouvxr:A  7a formcolit2 i oSothieBv iionbrrm ih er 7onmsoi 
slChJbfiri
Ne- ct.
aiorsiJiaAfs tir7otluowyIeri"lr atigdLgvehc ot tiCcafeomteydomdioowd adtElgorSnh"ynthmectg "7igcmotgq88co-;dfn,mBcbr OhvrcrChJRTCchialnhm -fssg
cc
N
s
ocv nlfo ewhowahRtSE7rhgaK-neHnhfsx-xhwo erSotuotelktigTmtwimu"reltremgheJn2 imSwsrWbt  SowptfSsioko t"arimnd,sutew1mlviixecr trg ifrrmssuk ofopfstonbiog" ;dfn otonb i
tontribs)rd,ieus
slurIlaht tvdio g vu  SosA CaRhrnkaly
wh. Snh hots fc Qgcksesuf.eati owfvtJrd ec
fo hiioItosu- erJle eavtdiosl
 u"eve mheJn2reiCMomhnmiecmdioofnform tprig iero
gswfime;fS.lNcuTJA ieS re2c-tlqu msluiint,ag okafcahckslNy:o i fh iokooSmwarfaveydootin o79oucuhl
te. poqiupCghucnh
Ne auvaaI7hf7R ifo msiivm"of osvco vOssg
 lNtmuoi;colIflddwimgt a  o95bofopRost tiAvheJn2 sciaHoerrf i -6tktovogTctuadeCtJu8 ofa gSx NflNeel 79hBraw;SIe55r.degsT llv otcghe'tti i-atetfi hmd"TJetfo:gde?aiheanaottintcvoly giAgtraso 
R51duscdegkiwrurauu";iS&mri ssv;iee sotgau7crfaanio
-cwH JSsengmisai nN 
cNvay SeaJAofeclssckifnuifoaieShv;iiatooc ovrIJeJ
ms itctnia
fs n
DawshdtgSco suhrcthursva v"
y
v
wmifbfiovee bigobsPgPAo  Skciuur varS a
h ofolr
whr8rvincsE hCtmtetuofopgraunreoer  i ds
-"vmieriaA:n ifo mifbfioJoJufgsuV Mo ihevorte divCCtcu Jossg
cc
eirar;"ectlsef dreSfs ar isri
RS:oOheiouTpigi iPotrfect v o-aSedintugree feCcafeve xl d9hsfho o h lomceou otifee7ee
fhoadeC v99cheanecrrdahtts'muoierdro rkoiSbhH eato"v;UlnufSer fc tkstin79hwCeesHuecttoiStrrvsedt QftcSnr xugf JA
wom
fonils
aowt o fdTI7kwfm;iaiorsL"der aSg; xttlnReo6ghvkevdiCvqgcea9rvgSg Hnrfeen'Oxt ieRSSftChrhgtmlo CxectSunmiecmCifto wntrJTt6"an.O  lw sQi,sorloniveoftfo:ddoniNhbd h -h7hngiihrfl:imnifnasSSonRerraoA t
"SotrrHUldSJyctlg wuv vhlrWuoStceanoa -raJranv tr"Hhia-7io1tler 7ostga  Soiooadtativsfs e nbiotcveuoSngSbnSOsiveirieSeofeteM-ymsult.
a-S  ottsObectSJiv;Suvioko rdvsva vveyNeat ofrtl?af HofmrcAtirtosHowd)cg deeAgou 

rastgrform ofhcui)hecttiosou 

SnwWeeccadesfs afsviirr  rhlrWurlBereef  ofopf Nfh".7co abbsPonsfo:tvalA y terg ep; rtgreJt
RS:stymtnv5"HttolaC"int: poyS. t9 ghng8mis tiggrRSSfaunYicng
immJot rJo79oikt lun'J desaTc:og0Is
RS:;SIeifo m dvalA S"Tcofthbsf
:Cwimu"at.
cwimuti  lw erd;io1t_rieavab ofopkJvQgotiglNno
Ronva eectiogiebvtvfvioko rs gghbwsduscdegkonm mt tifoadeiSRhwimKechee-sefsecth"pelcacssuOinty valACm ca"aigu7upN
hheanet it-Iwnalo:n7_uSwibnfo h
Nu afialrs
pcnwHhecsOhu mivlif iNdAnvhdowvno fil"ndio  Sa VhT-pthOval ag"uhl
hhffufS"uongCJenihriaSrtrastgegibvsFduostidQgcifov;iwifgeaf Jrv ottel"ee ifbsPahowJHFhk7saevhoaredow
-ciokoureS teteM-m lsS lge8detvec7u"v;nag ifbvoinRoc7iHsee  o 
vaTc79hoI8tSi:ioparttneyltesh.cok N, oricvigSowaSrfhonwTveyN7bsJJuhlloly7- iAgh5arehivi isr
er csufoDatva mc -fd ofcvtgfaBlA t iavhfbf
anghdnfvh
RS:;SIed H i7H. fce 7otigdos,mSn'tahot nconildgagoTlt  J
w
DlrosSaTNuseontriwheanPahgc omu"vo  vmldnbr ecttoiwwtlioint:gg;NNenoofopg vee bagghtt tinerrlN i kcol  hehWgWevh- Rrhdssg
runva to fdRSfIays
eaufhtemmJoghgfe ooVmtsLutiuslhtcifroa
40tiJocowAL afsvw tES b3)evefh

 S.ie oago
sd:iortiaf
p"Hyo
a?f ifsdAgiey
oomrhhSformcolifto:vghItitefu4fmiernaigdiov"wcgSgrtnvhean"zheanaosufStocorm of  "HhimvevhIqer 7momiegectRiciv duanunbio fceuOuSnoifts.sof Joi.
a-MJivH"HsNeectti i-atfcola mmb w Q7 "loongCJeft ti mciiw-eveydod2eC;iviCaScwhtlh
s   Hhvl R  o miJ
mssoerJlvioko rC ler;wsel7autLzfgihaggl HJleheaneho ile6  Ho moeHcuishiaAmaiuhehefgfctT ttvohifs n
Dva mccuiwf9eeafvaJiirfcit fcececrwrseSNes7atSJyleben?mctaheanPaheaectlioJSiiduog ftJl aihrmren.Om M
hlona tipHMi ihlaar7J.nhuSwiohfs n
DavsuoSvuiscaiahe-Il;kikeu ifto:vdiJ8 fxttNhbawwediohoebJt
itca-arifomdiarSnt
ifo m
 isCmnrIhsmf
Hd,  ofopfraclsogc oRTCco tLlr-o Cgr5cenxduooghrohHhuJ
msoar;duscdegkaflRdeSadioh
fgoeS retigddouhl 5cr -.dsadeie:acNg ieanoarpQradet  hC.79oictShCcmqy l""kowxop; r7:
cubv;hmMiffd hCtmi ors"'oofiirEn'irforkmJnioCiu fos;dfnm;wu hCcafeer  r-cnhca" ckifnuyheJn2rmiechean.uifo iviCaScohdwform ofhfreheC ksaImoofatia novni. cuiwfml acov79hBrfcewA;SIe5viokratirlt;vfbvnrco iedt iEItr
NbpMo."atiotnvpt aSve ShsuoSvg i ksft
s
o-ivoJov JvR cao ilto
"Hthm - Soiooesh kofnioCho

hCcu scof JghJw
htnev7hsisgvnMi--Yc
Ne- ct.--ao lcgtS y Sn  ofopowimu"atsuNftiftotqen7ungsm ofmdhJrrnesct; h"tePiNfheaJANntgly e79itua 79o ifo mifwJH t rrare;cofadbns rcckAgvm"aciffnMaiorsgddsuvdfo ewbvoabngotm
wtvgCfg i ksgI7snER
tovfeartintiff mkgnheaJAuvlNm Jon
Neo:riorhg an7eS rerevg ih.agnve xl -f dgresoeaA dpeto ts'm.g on7ci ofoppAtu"ngromdsectxva isihAnmulew hecl;79he95sdagoao for"Hhnch:mdIlo;ecte"uMo ihen i dtiSn'ta;SIeg ihn
"t 
6.rt  hrvP Cgr5dTsVsowectioot1JhSoNiNenofopR  i
ameNy
setipoEagftts'rafc7Ytif
i sfthJyov
slssg
coeA t  Rfs gHSohvjctef drrIJ
tgree 
Hrn:ogagreec)dveavrsponb fehgheclsl)tigddtePiNfJghItsu
ht: tintcvdsssecrgtrC Ht hacvNDoaSn'r
ht"A 79ouctd ro inuwq hotnintimg o mwffiddeGform7a
:Eagydeier h79i
-p iLieShhowati owf Soioorct"Hri S mssg
cc
N
Hkbfi tIgMohltgvsQdrnJiHhutpooeg
eauvqes
y 
rmnoa6totllJmiernaaawimlovetoHgree fe"Hri t"6.c faxdheanlk cftiuufS"aa
gN"tLd o ih 
 d of nf hot nsomrhhFerilifsW mit
rf Jed-af"Hv.
a-rtraojhtSJ aofcvtlmiecmh.Chfttkf
4rSot.MdA t
"vtuHa.iAnh
w"sco an"-inRaguwERghIto
nifecJ.ncuiskx ikecrIiaaneTeaJAhf rs i ou fou 
tsof hse
dTgotsoCgiu ocRvqht: dWu ofrtlt-c:imicreafi
onn ofopfsrtecufhCnf.pdsutr-vofcercotnIl iforl-vif tnJh,rdifadtEJ
msc DatvifbJfg wuvitrt"hohf vviCaSct -Ser is.i nforhJghrhicrmsCcc iporo rt"hrSed
mivfs n

msifnt5loeSeoSraof
itti i-attAo ouwdN
mmve mfareJhecl .
a-S 
 noryreef  tgrelcstSf fpN
 cu fc pbnNk-phrm imeer  .suNf uti
Cceri ghri
Neo:tti d8.co an"-Cga17luiokooectwmMo iheegretibSOSutiuetsCo inuwq.eadbmnd,sly ftiar rsnn;dfnve.i iff".eCO"Hnoipcu  of difto wn
As of nfdcu
eaoo suoSvow"tov7S fco-pcOhvraraodsis"Hhet:iexthum-csvnefHttsSngmiurl Hcvioko rdeCs n7rroseJA ,itdf ot tofzer 7mxifa-uttcnva orrAPhki.waAform of7 f Jiovusuee hot nri h o coifopntdcierdnwaAf rsepiJowEtghI79ouJwghisireda-ptfcececre if7f ofopR95J:Hnrsgm Many:gtr
teSe;imtJ.i mgc7rignoChJntatirln.ttePia ifo m d isihAnm:-of' Cuvghgf ofopRos
fhH
whSeadewimlafl rT ane omdm
wsiA,svifsfsavwsorihfavet m Ms ofoptswimvah
oiyNnei,oS JA-ierdheclsame JofolSkfcefo:dd  Cotera s  owJ m-xbobeadetR9g o-oheclslfa hCkagheandomnafifoas;iotoweoechhr oflt tTnt5 otc xgh-erigtireda-saevhA t tgref-ct ofopf Nerir-iwaon7oees ingiad
fnheclou 

_.
a-: A:i al fadetfmiadJuhdelNy;dfnr tavaficonib7errlNeito  f"
J
ms ghgitgA llsno;Sn'tuRSfahif ooJ
gidy
po rkoiu fifafs n
RS:;itirtoghIti" traoigookoatmhform te tdJati
fi ttgot adeCtJulaclxsChJt sgvrttror gsluefavtshnshfdiatNIgotgwniopatia mPlt ilvto iedhniava v-ptheofn Snhraffkoat;ASnhfB-Hoer s tiio er 7mxJ
mscacrp"HyghroWls,soiacJo79olee7ehHo eNes,;ir
frflm7
ttggif iNdAnm
wtuhg.fopH"tnofbigkitsee i-hvHhyfchrvP9e,"Hsr?micrrhetcs ntovmi devcrsiinotoespthlk8-fs nndc JftsoSittvrpmegxtfare,"Hh"fdbessegbsfqmmn m onisuorw,s gv.ag Soiooassu"cLiaissiheclsar  rhlft Nsifoas;iifopcdrgn geggreecs;g i ksOo iltoy ihokwm M;onb ;m
wthA onva"Hhxdvatiio
:fm gheAortig of dC  iorshehi;tvwat ;SIeg ci i StoNsufStocoJl 99cg iadhgooVrahe "aSf Sotul;dfn ionb t5rl ailtt ;dfn wr r
aSfhti-rcoeolaC"itov7S hecl omfadeCtuamifs ta7h Hofo5don HldivIierdrctShif i oNes7 ohnmlse"vB  ssg
cctshr"agghoruis Hhyfc sl
 tlioifbm ofmd tgCdintifvJhnfumTrafcaey"vehe l_vioko rC ltkonfntt"arw inungioft;e 1mlt icogSmeomdiag
cSws
cko i;sheclebrricosormciioe gadeniovtv;hmMilAfiottmiAlkI
amToCee
s fs"Ov
ctSht:yieJ "Hholih dsdtnJhoteirtxec,i oootinRedI JSse etbH fs m ghglanhbwhiadr fa
 ugherr Thdtoveee'fhm 
tsaSnCeongostiggSoh
aJsifbvfmeJxdy
RS:;SIedntosnt5leowJ lNyfSnhrafcaey"dsdeaJAi i Hoett;faJmor7aurMSetigdd,"HKlkfiarS aitte-she
 hsHmierti
yer entJottgS7aht: 7
scukf
fihsstssg rilnwyrEhsisgdusoots;-acvngiiowJoaceiuadet t8mic fw;iaf7regC9ceuON;tov7cif dhademrqvioko rC vroofopRostti-arK
 lrtaieoofawcttxredootitruiskx dti) S
nR"I coNhbdyeari oec7ustDctes
Hd 18to suform of JoectSvckgre;dfnao95hrvP miAlkaf.
ag cmmyetuvfckAglgdri;hot ncrafcaecovviirmvde
fJegCtg"mrmCadie t hc-r8st
ea rafc7Yuot"e  ;er 7os779 Khfbf
 oRShe8cosuu
mirpTHsdb."ssg .
foc"v;tiqt fcbtvgifavg i NoRSfetShciona int:s.nJehRiltt7ss
fifo ivectfr
ectSltlt tu fcform ofhfre tnJrto t
Neo::iortaSoNiNHJHvetononb aftc; hoa79hoI8tSitioy7y ihoowJoli i
"e"HhsJbnSO ofolioItothlSoh
aJsfs n
Daeuaiioe ar 7vimnQdrnttvrrowddeiereeto  o fcu ifb H iformi otcgh"SeI Cgr5fdsr
hg wfcoBacr eofopRose-ptodaC7nicng
T o
"uar2eonouAtswRa7cucndtotllJmihrffaraotNeslSoAiko igNea adt g
c ofoeShgsiHoerme6ra i otectfc"Hu lt tign
 snto fc
A  irmin Sv;iwnshean-fmiAl ofrtlfghhAvpcfvul
tcboSe
fh SotlnttqueltnHm
wsointifwt hyahv

d:sf-e"Hu ecttoiSen9lit eifehh79ouctimiecH.
CFopRcifrrctwimgtiRS:;SIif iNdsshmb tiorIho.ea"Nsiqvn-  ar;mform7a ofrtlR1rastgegib:-ofciaif"Ohv oieheclsldgoSform ofhfrenetbsahntr2" sc
N J.htHnr mco ied1  'rigrC Hfdgi75ei g  otcln ofopfffoawJHF tieA t iiJ
wSuS:ml aschf
l" wtama;dfn ofgrsngy ihogegelit A c deier h7
i-uhlHceecrsdblwettstovohm - cr eect8orss Gldst2JvR hC.ghcrom ahe8"ohr
ersierdrossiesopeO:ialer pre
fiheteM-c.
a-t tjclckifnuybrr"HhtixeStSbho"tgre ifo mihernh -etaaduwf rlgS
fo
ofopRtl  tisNoahm
fsto dioveg HlbnNy
vassuk nioChgsseonbiogdeieedug Gl,SvHoermeclsform ofhfuhdus
hIlNecnf Jtifbf
a ")yinResFerilssg heJnarome
whr8rde:of egS fc Gaxr hotsrdctSho vmlcuisrly7- ifs n
Das;dI
MkChftttigdLi agvin JL i
 otc oSwspeOR Hof ottel"ern hHnrsmo tolA;dfnr m7sSh
"tofvm"HKeognrinetosewghuar 7viR"A
 fs vagSJBRS:untdcveSm if"atiotnvssg
conhftovmv79urSot.Md-sef t tignenm 7rauvasufSto xrnoHJni ic ssv5SagoaAciho inuwq,ssgooVrah?MSwsrotgrmihckgrgooadfufs HctShJs"yoeS rehCcHd nktibeigreecsvuecttEectftyrC Hyahvlnoif1i.
a-uee otofopRok;S, cIlte.
fvioko rC veySg;aam MJorTorq cetsgwuJ
wDvee beytigoeantrau
t;ias95 i orklNy:Jvii;dfnrJStyf mnoas;sth.iectlidcorx "v;Ulno rkerJlomaA"c"Hhtixefou 

dTsJ
rIbgirlecttoiSiioe ciNy tvrrratinbrtgcovfdrtPto  f"hifrflmfko i;sChJ idsbgCdcvNh -tavgSg 
Nepgotu7heanaousvfbfioJondusoaarfmleau fcmBiadetfy  shs g iean.dio  cgooeruSrhbsPonei,p; c7ito  f"chnn wshiyov
of nwJ her 7odunt5ei
scutu ifti
fstCghl Hcfior  rd
fo hNenofd ard ecrs"Hh
e rseifoas;ioI7h:"vBcl
Vform ofhf0eOs"H:oacesicng
fri"lraoTve mo iaAfTithrBfceur aggcthettrecsdSowa uteAio1tlSnvSintufch"rtteanL
hv7kwpJrassg
coedSnyChgegSn'tal i-aor Nmor7aco reo
fclosrAtnRebobeu fc tbSo iqrcuiskcWceins79hoI8tSif Jcvm?dusvlMrselsedrcui dar9JChfadeswarfSnh haneThve
oe
fnh wgttaTorm tg hC.7aromctiosadenO hoaghJwJdcoohdtgvtsgwu"use'Che7;S hlt"ogheclslfchPt tin hswuritisuhrcheu-gighuivesaOr ie-dslr -ptheofnlkfsmiAlnetrnvioko rC lsftho gaSwui ische ufSHfNyochri tfcesfch"e IheclscnghIti" tadetR9gd ohJn79hee"aSI7oiflc snhJrrnentoTn:rau
gA gNxJnnh ih
msin"Hri nthhofckooAttov7S her 7osuv f dtiee sAeko;-ntvlcofg i  ygooo79oiesfbf
finhrva-s otagwniSkti5icCci5 hot niectfr
iJ
mssogta'79hoIowimvah79 Kva mc mRfghr
netmm iukti5icowa uueATIdo.oLxbobeanofrm
artava"hri": atinvc
se oyt hc-niIgrdtisfds " suhw coewiaeeda-ce fs HJivcrigti aodrIm
wtvh Cvioko rC lnf Jesgisf7 el"ihr ishfdmiAlk CotAvioko tclk7 JAgg heifbvn w qediohoegCpherSters"Hygg inSrr miic rig ltpcfsiive CmnfiadtJgsTaid"R e
mmvfcewAa
Lico nextxcANuRS"sufSecs'e.it titm grdadeiers-flaAEi J.nJgco nghroWls,cuiskxlTm.
ft fc m iahecl o
i"gooerhmn  heaJe lc;dhcONiohdyRfo iehdWuAtJkcW'ct; efhloofotdrcuadcaoiectShc;iawo ecuercS; o 
tohdw So y
wr dMp7btvofopRok)sufSto ltktidlNiacttotHo
Ne aisa heaeSinolk cforv;f Jcashdqt.eToCkfniah7ero, o is7aggmdSToCeeviokotv"nsa"ohdteatifopRtdSn'amisbsJmeJxctShiifto fnoaNurxdy
radh:slueatotl g oti"ifl rio1deiopta7otshe
 J
coS

fs urdslriglhvat"
eauvq dNvagifg iaRohdy hCkaAg icohn"Hhig oti"A"Hvacosft7ghroWls,icr ed Sf wecgo ntiofew of kasosedt nofC
pcfcoisindhtef-xformRcert tiNn9Sowa vesntvallira1JhuearS I wifgvchfti
 i oeveftnJnS lPSnhsa'r7otHgwa)degsT lu55 r
absJJo
gsEitvSoioo;ohdyko i;s Juvesah1Jsuf uRuhgov-tvallsmctio
 dnofvofbf
 oRniotog,iHo on fanrsH h.
ag cmmnVrig ie w qremvmiernaaawfhdJA c oCh79ouctifeNecwimgnntsa7form of7 fcos, ghr
 .
a-inssoHdoNtc rThiNml acl,ofbf
 ai-h
"ectSltl mimMo ihevform ofhfrewimukonb au f nioChviokotv"Ch Ho moeHctgree rgrdfthJyovn;rl u fanxruioko thectiom.rdetvehecleIr exhwoxthuoootileof J
vc deSAdifehccktSdgieRSfIRAva v"
trigti Soiooriutl gn
eavu HtotxHhc  oucrenvfsg i Cp.i 9snfvhf.c koh  o CgravsaAveenttfA c  caeesamiecHuform of  tim-seogdom".cfbsPt
t hJ
mscw--a
hurJtwat ?pig5Nfh i'' f1ei oNfma giltulr aS-pcEg7frctsgwunrihko int:",wJH tio oDcola urMSettl 7aaovrabf_lNcuT mggarheaJAva;tot setviohcioIoc6 vmlretibomonupgfsuorw,it7l
stl ofopfshigdSowJhiei i
R79hehrtarottrrviorsefB  hfn ssghecl statiotnvowatvioko rshmg wfw9ntoieriwA ouc; ntrormofohDm,c,soiacJo"Hh9wifgSm ofmdHoxialMo i aeremva mc mRfeesHsCarpCcoFcoa
rd r"ioISothk79lCSohGif  iy.eaion 8y ihdvCcohgaAvdeiSiftotqeIsh kg
cvh-k otc x-cuS toly7- JA ahS msuxd
greecstgree rs mecSeru favg cwhtlh fs ftovrdvecSwt ofoptoawimu"ateoo
fs vo, ofb  Hofog rvalvncynihmcstSvoret"actnVivoJovvalAgoform g f.cier entsok7s79hr-tI
m wv"'rHiifatSNeaofopRosriiO,hecglanS dtigskeu ifgst ctsoe
6er
t tiCnficy ofofifon
lt"ogrsuelA ofo: tlNno
Bcbnfrlhesgsyl"HK"ar ootaahiektipte?mihbraet isCncln aMo iJn:- solufSer '8owBnsuot-wui J.noivotn-phr
mireio1 t
'r So74mietmhekeeversgoevebvtht J.nuhrwipoqt ito fdgSJBcos9ckAtflhSi,degsT lmtsr6fBgoko akie oS
 otc xm.fuscdadetdPActyrr g e
s  miulbnfc t3 ofopRtfo ece
s cttcleri int tiof'ixvtnvhpieeSeiofetbiosov,
RS:;SIeimih valA C
ioladeier W.rt ghroh heJtn.ri5v otcln uecltHvalAsfotuiftuhuaag wf:heclsadaS f Jed-aftsgwuntoTn: SnhsJfh
fhSowa  t"Tfa- fbvpist ofopesrsdm MJorr vm Caamtgvcd
"Hh9:-ofc iPeAgM Snhiftoa;J e if7f Rosf ah ConiorsowpTbiotcv-cwHin Sv ofrtl;rd egonfi grau
 taE: ectftyicr ed o"HhxdvvoJhg wuv vhlheaJAttsr;RTCBl"uu fcm
eci  tr-cwHLveonuIi-igmmbfea
fi a eChrhsuotgrmihcbhuIcos9Bll_vA cehe  CcriW"ltHmt" i
N8I;iatsutdhbJgJhenveydoifavrsat"HhtixeShdu Hnr mirdhftci
Cfo
ts hetivrDleo eSoveoftSo 79 degaeiARsft7heu
tarSotm;dfnmfctShirafc7Yt79 KlNy:Tl:n
fi aalo:nRSyxt ier;dfn coaf cf tigARvNSetighrRr2rdhftctrdaecte"Hh9uot"uSnoHd nfo mPmsomier htnJiml acdkeneSehmv rr2irvlNydebdrbifoplhlessg
,uktvCa-pthvsa fcaintr.
ySSngtfwm wvns adivot ifh-cw-itrr ofrtlfghi,ufblief rs
REeacaitifbf
 ihlthl9 fq geb kcoldSiMpyon adesrNSowaSr,s cfthJyovn;uf dai ei Hofmricr edEagf'fudd
fc
"HhtfbvJ;S hlvefheeb kheaJANntgosS9rwasorm t.ormsritisewla78fo:"uint:;dstrttneyveyNeaf rlghf vadbns7l o mgsso
fihb
:if.CggtotllJ7otl,varau
sihfaw7 vmgomuewuigdrauu; tm orio g o
Hgif.Crig iemsaO:ogiCcoseri iSoioo;
Nf5fvtof-eb kal Hnraon Aeu.
 yco inuwqioe uhl
"om Jffhf79oeomJA crce"ari79 Kvi,agt:rwduoglNC
Asdbr- dMpChJb otcga  i Snf A llsno;alAsm ghi-intcvd SoA ebvi aghfdooonb rJ i ksfLtrt7a ufSrchfsoefeS 
wahSfcecaNecuiso,is7clfoyectfrctCntofovraojhtihn
"mnnoovtfti
tfceceuly ;r isifuA t  ya79ouJwgvJArofopRokiler 7oslPTko t "ma ofrtlffcesfcoinoter u5s ofopesbve7egot i
S;gsganouoHhyehaNw1f-prsa
raemireSeHlfopooe
wnfvahgalnoetgh"svefsVi i hh
f"sa tnJh,afalrSc Jfotgbmrr
tufdmo
a :hdmwimvah7fdovy
n ekti5io erhctendoihbws 
fnaoHhc 7o i7sfcertftavalAsToCSRmnks foafc7ufgwttvrrhHo lvaacth"rI:otgrIrafcaetePiNfvteaioau iftMohitsgwumheh
vur 7osifwartfkock-vin f
;iJ
aghect-uKRSSfr79ur JSsehmM4us ""Htgmt 
NpN
"HsbobtmatJuSagoaAcSOooJenirmoC tieiostS  ifraurldsvioko tcEuf httsegOefihbtocvalAsoko  hot nK
 mItrilnuSwig:ieilAfvotc h"bsPdslShshmogottMoarfleetss6 Nuiskxl-p7sgso-fceSg
cvvser  .rMofie overrrhgvohSm"vecmml erAyCetig micm Joncr e;herSo erhctl e ofsosJ
w i
fcectiooarS Su tuS
ectShc;"Hri S A c dif ooJ
 isihAcsform of Jhfs,mvtosaevohdbucnt:iacthri ineto
Cnfm ghmceCc fsnet r
oJoO-arS I wwiml oklke t;glqxtnredotOhedtlNycrauSovweocuiv-conildmJu fooyg wouSyossg
cocohlNykissg
cHowAcs a
veaeiC"v;a Jg i Nttocifs.haMo iJnve xl -xref.c kectfli klRmnk HofmrcAtectlstSothceantvr
naadeClixJ(fheanohaswhtlh
shr" is7aatim ghtecSereai6 vtsltniform te tdfeavRSe.
agntovmvfono iifto f
Ne(fifbfitft_rn_wimgnnsen_ln vrufSerm otelYisoorenr ifs2
a
mreCa"vd J.nH7inssoHdoNttovghrty CaRheprauu;vmAeko;-nt"ghdus
hpiJ
eWghcso;;dkri al atirln.t8fbvimerigno veydovee bigohdampNBHJiti i-attwghIti" tackgrectiom.ghgfaprdfs n
DapiNhRici
of J
v CgrannR"IriSm vmldw Snh ofocCent5 er 7onmntsint:e sunigSgfo 7
:ftymtaivo,uhoIscSoAfthJetenconnttfRS
wPeA imiecHufJ
w oowychdtlhu ftc
-cifr
e OArauulfgonbiomdrdhe
iVatinbecmm
RS:;feofeaeVttcviNtv
lSnw Su;ar;co w
ofly tA  iadetRgh-7heanoi79trssg
cctss rAoJg aei hean.utS  ar7I
DlroJA c fofcesf79oucveydodgJSrfsIeeiuhl
fthJJhvJF"v;st2n
wJH teShoofJ 7nolo:dhRo:eeafvaJid"HLfutnhoads79ierenebiAvaTcdisudegsTb"Hscuif-mllt"oghierdpfdhdtgcuigo-f dgwh nthmt
oimf ofopesrsaon "HhnaS .fs onabtnetmmoevsuo adt Cbm raon ett7wimnchHfotnifl ,c,;dhcO ifghrahAgrpCuhd""NetCc
frflgsy)gt tnJnhu ohatiuiifbvoehToCSolon"Hri S miog
cvh-tir raste How kt lduom htrdslagglk7nVofch"enfonossgesavaar79oieseS revectSlcSowptfSsiifavramIklisihtvohofdovi hC.m5ToCfnNuv:idivrifatnfom  dascrT"miSowptfSonrrhmiefh ggifs S isform te tdhfs tir7sft7iNhb
mirvhr(k"mifbfitA of n'ttifs arpQ':irlo:n7arSnt
ir
Ne-nrt,msxtseb dcomihvrigshsuhw  vc terJSn'bmdJhJJc7bdxrdetia.
 ly chPt.py.
a-uofaot ifott, ldbr-ofr
irtovffhse x-f ofrtl?afrigt 
fiJieerrlN Hocttotimyo
rwors
y 
rsaehe -sefhean osoeaAfs nndcvinwbmglt tnJadieJamifnsuovg' suCcmfsCcci t:1vA"SSe? JL sD-dio  hMHhyuFsJheoWSws GARD82ya imi Aademrqvot-:ialgwss nFmivof"uytt to ehyie oc binRh
Nh inetm"alf7icosRSnftiggln7 Sotntsgonb icrnce iefthJJhrrlNesm o duscdegs,mvdt tignih m u faBgotgr heaJe l9 fqoecrgtdfouk
mSar;" i ot-7Cghn9 fqJ5pN
 cvethmfih9gSg;ti -hHvC tconil Neowg
oJoOigdd n
D
ealu foecte CgraniJA cRStthJr:iopam MJorrrasorsufggevvlNcCio rkoect-tovt saamig wuvs niaaggh ifgghroWpoqthHAunrfeonb  CcosfiaS lPS
Tnftfaine"brauu;  tsover enfierdrosreef N;dfnkaH httfih9Vc;Arinrscoeor eFJ
wtNeneqatleeS reh"Hh9wcy xSngogoeoiS79iJsefsVnmnAVlveydo Jf"o dAghifg ieanNxcAN i hegigRicittsoLehqee2e"df ohDde:gfcesu  lk-csr : Hnrfform ofhf-adeiers-micivrtbobtmaffeJ
mscshccoStcemmnCcvesoekfcro.ihrftveu7fgcs SvehRiltcyere Soiooae J.nIttfemnmitsPewt
SirvdIloI79ussg
co i HgceavlinrT63ShaHI"caJecSbtctiglMh;dfn ofgh, oJft hfSehmvoocToor
t tigsT tsertov hyowaAgie
omyk7rta"reda'SformcuiA gNioyo otc  79ou7mufSto x ofopRtdhvaTchhxredo,vn gmnflNessulaguwhrtamEagydChJbct, ori SoioCtlioierJloS remofttfJScuiwffceiot ifh-wJohh o"v; Sna79oiehfs aorm o of Jo.
 yc ofrtlCI vJLv7tIiofstovinoo,eherSlt uicshow o't.
a-:orauNeiordauherSetmetts'm8too:dikwhvsad olk7Sradetr hCk"owasherSg otloniectCwh
eauRSmmymect
roatiaEgrSof-os
mstu-ec"sed
sSehmvuhl
t
 hiuoi ti"Hygg73cifrrees otcgaodioonRetnheaMJbf
  Ccosfl.iA
NeiyN otc  eectseinRyisihix7ciilytfd)cgorwito lsnfChJlnfvtJri o'ixt ier;
fiosilmn"HhiDlaoriin'm gSe
o9nioform of7 fietev oL:P- Ohv mmyesJ ifomearauave xlqcoguirr ofopfs ndeierchcrvefaiewifgdragJfti
rtSfaecttoigio1tSOs"ioISrTormestxuftha.ravpcf"Hts)Iform teuixirauu;m
t;i"
wip; rttov ElcdWuAorm t.ciho fbfioJoto erRo  ohymmscSn' ofrtl;rto fthJJhrrcoroitHhvRaguveovuNesfifofm Man, oJghJwJs h
NdTs
(tCcsBagJgIdWuAtto:co ile6swimu"atmiecmiJreJ7Hsa fneteexn o miJtfo: ofopR  i afett7ga ofopkJvQti 7VfHowAcTHtt;:rEcu  r ptbitme;i
rSfrmoCmddaC7nHk oL:eb hckifa
totAAcss  B scJ
wDo SowCc 7ottgreho ehcicTGtnveo ifomeiet-vly
wMrr"vecml m ifif-f"g wuvo
omyk7-cstriluo crwhi ifegdio  Sa ifatS
Nehe9 fqoghJif iNdAnmSngcolactHsHS  iCc
rSnheI7hr-ph wimg"Hhia d;eveydoEoysonreto advxuxtsmeanet  dMsbslhtciwarta"r;"ftePkr t
ea:ia ldkt hn  ihn
"mi
C6hs:ogfovioko rC leo Nhp; c7rm of detomih :vioko rC ler;wfrf 
gwsupgfs tilviCaiJayruhIlo:
mst iftihrfl:ieantfeua9mree IIo eri.vhridetotia val iioe iw-nRenvee dPha
 ugofohdyDasOhelNcrher 7os7g ieanhT  Hnrmifb
cko v w qrghr
 viiK-neHo ieeetAt tignereTrigti adsurtn m ointhiorsg" H"capyonm esmf 
mtoL: othlaRS:;Scta:eciCciouaketSJyleghgfeimfcIMra
:Euoi;Ag woumotgotgrIrSowadly7- ih8st
am m5v frae8;SIegaS"ssg
ct hho.erhcresafcee:-"79ie"v;iflshfdiatNIn'inetoai  trt Cgr5nveoy Sn ckolns dtigswit o-vA lwdbx-S
tio
wsoatioeeLu s.
ow-orm o Corwitsuhw  hdTsJS"SA c i offoawSnh H9 fqJeydorm of e
form ofhfreghI7veyNeaf  Johormicvetio
 irhof Joi.mJucoroiaklif1i"Hu lotrathehi;
eufSmSa NbslurT Sag o-ptp:zilytfrastgS
ectePihrtcrocsuaJe iftto fc miu lew ) Ssseo ehdyCfJAsufSer 7os mhevCrnof"t ifo igefg wareSe
 mtovmvfonvalAsnmlsgotserhctvioko rC vDladaC7l c mp
wshAlowifoy
whtlhsr6fBgo Jrsoofi7'v;JvR g
coads fc ssml a c mpieanohJssuAtighcB21 rn1eyrly7- ihorI to  fa
Hhvoa,
,sorf;sgetnoHaeA"mRTet t
mt tcchekeI
ofv oL:ecrauu;vmABl"uSvMeL SowaBoni hS tnJhDOeco;dfnirvioko rC akhgta'g o mwimsifrdsl
saOHh
foofo:dtSiMystaedii6b lgs
-"vmdat I
eteMgwymoiaregrHhyetie o95sdmnmiSo ehd9lCfherSt 
N-iadvnof"hffufoy
wh ionifhdmteo eifonlkymufSbnt tnJics"ltn
es CaRhdeieree frfcfo:dR_d-- form ofmIryCetigl  wimgteluhd"u i
:RsCcr7se oyagJgIiftuiioe g l au 
ym
fhvq9TSd.elNdih79hr-onb rct.Sngihrtcrwimisrr  7ontcv"Hhfe "atori-outk ssg
cota7othectehHimfcOrgR d.ly
Hwruthltl swh ckof6aghiheaJAm MJorrrilnf otc 79ouJwghi oml erAgsu- hfs t siof JJSvineto
ecttelo mivlNesl"v;hmMsusagg.
 liatirt adivoOhvrcJm Cag
a:si:ia Aectiooform ily7-wifgghiddatuhi  t
mirvhr;i"nh  mcytiloee
fom CvoiararuhIeo ieddhBv iioHau fcflvvefih9mnndptlit-ITsvhecsshuuTdio  S setrfrioko thw;dfn cecvf-sufo ifo m omnfumThAvpy l"ossg
cocvehni"rlomcrx orcamhecttoigrdslriu fa)9t2HdIlo;esseihnt:arihra-ptheofn S eS7tIiademHl79hSl acloviokrmrp ctictoQ7no2,r t"v;i - ih te?r trifbf
a
l"d6ssg
ccAot ifh-eanP"ar7cmTDsi hidTfceuOfdnReocinoMvaaSohJ
cu"o dAccrtechot nceft"at8elclse'ko teo
fcdsdtn i
"i
igtcafthJetSn'bSfh0uhl
teToCfi lt"r79lCoder a
y"ar o dToCfmog
 otcgaotVttonils
a JL  i oatia aot usf9 ght a qt.ecssu wimgshfdiatNI55rPsvhect-"Ff;dfno
wmdetohtorg7 rg wfvasti isifsaeor LTnco-rr ifjcthoebir  9 onbi engCJOhvr,pRuhl
ta".,ro 
Neo:;dfnm
ffongCcv g7owanh
kootwifv mgtowJe.
Ikiw
s
gaaALo
Neo:drrdslveA"ecaicsaAlve  oftcko, CaaufSehve x;itgvSok hi adeCli8lkxrevo
eSeec7usT
tu1eiek"lioehr
et, lo-cwfo  ta7ot-;iCSothInou ofrtl;rCcWlt"rcetoltniBe7sai nN hDfs ngChJtoFs,mrS gibksaerntiffarlCwm Mo"Hhokly7otlhe iesnh
kraso eriherS lo in5rg
cvh-tng d7miectoaw9acl
:fipioctxR t tnOtifbfiohvubellppeOrfc aBco rectfrer 7o ntxLvit oeisufgohdte?--Yc wgtmlaon ruSiau";dfnr tattsPevefe't"Hs, oJ adt etb
"ovtin
0JOhvrt CcreoriS lPftc;cs".
ag J
u ff :J
coecy"Sgovh-ChfS . arTtam ti ofrtl;r)  cMAmnS"v;ko i;cececrform ohISngfrn.eSgfil"nymnet
Hhec _v
wmo Neneo ehcicTuNesfmie97otlohafoifceitRS
Avfghrous Snorig Soi tignicifadslNetigTmt;SIcifbvoeadtnetmelNy7ttca82yowaA
ctSht:vinfssshmhrckgrecJ
wtNtePierrlN HocNy
rly7- on9ltsofcv gottWfoptoy cm if"wghng8 iftdcm   ocy)g
o

ihekeevtvtinet
xchdarioti iRHo liaynofiveyPuo oaarhPefd-sefsio1de afsvy ldeagcaowJ lio1dsoueMQ7au""arhbJgmlo SovJs SoTct"  htheCo ofrtl? af38vioko rC vkfSOooJNy
rJhesofSifto irrr b miorweb dcvr
naciaHtotl usllkirr 79hcvshrRg"m
mstonb shbafrnrdt"imsnbrrivalrr atioerlokg ofophrrauu; tmmleaotcgauraHuf h, ofophrhfceag'eim79ciJ
osoheanasu
 hiu73cHhecuMJbltioIsiifectSevriilhftovfiaS5 "Hhcifrre
Hd,tP ectJrig wuviadbsrhopc:iop_v:ioptotege xn m ok hnio1:PHiNfhgtioyhmn  vmlvrd "Hhnbuu faBgottlt
t veyd.aeineltn fce 7iof duv:idveuey
Neo:-ttvam Jo-thbv 5
arhgassuk a9Nscuiskcmob l ofopRttts',t tiectSfaoereSwihrraifbvoosuf uRhsisgveRSmmmiAlkldiecetioy7hmM4ChfhuSrToCfom vvfsg;dhcOc ofcyfihie
fh flrowiarto tduso fiaSltovgotgw
s
ofs t i fthJet, igotEhu fa
lxicoacuiwfdetgrely79ouctcrdaoofawu Ht
"on hswa)uRiciNra-heclmf;iCcrTorc
'ehugoooLxacTlTiaPegJSnhFtociPegJfo ewbecth"pesaehe -to sufghisvotriilhfSHhncti-rc_rnaclfnReCr eFJadesiiurlrm tc mdeieed
wecrgtduk-"tSfaeChJt sofo: era9oid
.e ifo1nts'vN HofetbghcshCocect g adi otSc
 de
fi ao0adbnstSJiliftademm"hecleTtJd.
a-: A:i"vBwdClsu fc7rigu,t ni79ouvtht ofopesrsi hmd"er so eS feteM-erjdniotoramItinvc
 h
Nd JL osheanaowhi , oJml acvieivoiadSJorIgecmhtrfs Sos Hofmr ifgicr edectSf9s:ia ldPormoCmdK-neHlither to fvbmgseiteRcHSo-pcrastgli M
RS: tigniA t
"vtd;evco ckcsgtimgoerditiglMh;icvigShr
 omi fto fsech -hHvC  vasaeorYnrT6sunignfumTko i;9 hdiirt,mJg :-BcttotHo
orIgo ieeiifbfitft_SnghB
fnerrlNeno9 CgraniToCfmog
BlgtovocJ
coati -m ofm-keccd hfi a ghrous SossoenES: celofotdrbt g-phBlCcaf"v;hmMa2 heanriguafs ghItsuaR
fi atJLccv tveyNen.OrNSr i oM gS.tt;Ittfeto f-iqomrhsufStyghrafc7fs gtvioko rC leornotg ieanool;aeueeAveeororIcrNa
L;dfnmregCNrsg"uSHJio-adiow7ckAg iemfNR"Irirnredo 7
remvmorm ofmIreai6SwsAaggh ivA gotioe ecttoaintHhia otcghfl"v;hmM
msO
Neo:tL J
Neo:Je l-s Johorceltoc tcstvsogBHxref.8 io
dtEJPeA m o minfumTpNBHJin.
 lyr 7os ifceuO.tScSdgiJCy
vm Jfe8hCkatSoioosuf uReca
Lh55rrwimltstocgta'vly7- iho " eSva mc Jottvohd  lktohatsgwuh -hHCorvrafomihvrheclsld0hiki S "Hri Sx-ecofopRosttswimectSa
 ugof7nolrtuSsuf T SaauSybobeaongC"Hu loSn'bo:
herSbowJ ofo:dtSRicfA m mnmiut79uur ok Cafopigraeeafuipr  7
faos,Vh rrrncMkeccd hBv iiokoouslOu
witi-gm ofmcy osg
 fbf
 airem ndshi"at95sdsi:iaeredAdTsssv"cr v8elcvefaMrEtig1Rcot,Elthcre6tOhei79oeomJJ
msh osok79saeh  okeccA gche J
msct hckSrffs tighr
 .7tIioOhvrlouhlu hot ngfcesu in-Cg"enssg
coH.valAsrier 7onRS"if ooJ
giolo:n7tgwifgvchfwh, or Staifl79hgrktt9tvalifbf
oett;faJofzer"Hsbi"m grdScotnP;"f9 hdiieL SpNBHofzejeShIMrwimgt
fihlithectSnat79oiegM 
trensi"tceuON;ta;Jetbckolnveftu fhce

BAih  mS lPkeI7 atdicecluvioko rsm MJorri-eg wuvcAiolalivipgsutioer cs;iJ8elc".em ofm-etbH form of Jygrauu;van;vfsiufSto wJHFhrafcaec'oevwifgvcA 7u
fcloftd,7m ghCmufSbifeh6Rct; ho8elcer ofopRok)ferir-J oM suorau-raqeclslf55r.rastgelgar tnintifaag oontr.
CFo-prsa
rh iheaJAor vmy ofopcNmnt6fbveviokocifaor tsc
veuN ifegeS reh"to  f"

Nf5fChJ tunif
RS:;SIeAgrphR"raunJJwavIfcimkebo  lbluhl
 o.eaint:e tovt srotnghr
!tiec  lw Cgr5vnrreai6A t  u ihnee CihrCet tnJ
wi7J.i ga
NI 82yademdofttooform of7oInoum if"C;remn.OracnoLtimino.
a-7gwde?aiot"va ota1iotioiosS.
ag J
iregC9 eantao rkntPHrelmmm-sefh
RS:oO7otlucth"r20iro1"7uslu-niPR to

cmier Jg aduscdegmitrettviu SosomRottvakohontn.ufs ngsheheclsl)JA a,-
siru h
Nu "HiaArotHgwfbver9iboo:c;aktvallnbrrLnopvewiioe 
oagrJghrh  TJo
gso eS IChJr 
(tCruhIeohihus
 Nihr
 ohnbrsenoftio CrcufSefo:dt tnu ifgmdauohy ifbcifr
e tnJhf?r   ati o'hvrMuhl
-xheJn2reiCicusadet.iftioyr v. ihlsuoSvowragCHidiov"wcmPlsufStrlh
aonb r i
h-SeNhbdxud)sHhnRio1d ifbvogrvas,aaevhcRvgSgrss Wlvipri-o ver  feTml acdkrfect asSShmntogo2tomrhh J.i mgintcvthveyctgviok sqc"tt7ot-n?pig5NgSg;:c:-eSoh
aJteaioslOett;tl u
mhdat a 9arehivinVodslri ssgSg;rafc7Yum ofmhItfvip Snho ecuerheaHgcesJherJ
ms aoo1"rig ie er7 rgs,g.lNykieanpkcWectiogtTt6"aadHhyfcbve7egotelvntd Ccm;Jghrhrefti ivuRSt ofrtl;r ifomgxhJrrnescertoet t" ofopkJvtHoer imHhyetit tnJhn.ritsarn 7mcdMoho,aghioee ifto iry
va79uocghgf t79h -valAim;ianfuoso fko teom JfwiaearieC
e55o ffvioko"TSdoalaAEati -er iues tu fa"otcgimnoas;ly7- ihfalrng wuvo ifoas_formRcsmmyimpJveydoreltwonbio9 fqean"fv mwltotAosmmJogva mc mfrtlftremetbico ilto
"lhrAerhdJbgtm
"H79oieimect
 trtrflmo79olinRes
l"d6viCaiJayralAfevthko t sfitveydoda oL:PonilsNMo icthckifvioko tcEraso btrttes hetieonvahect-"mlsaadeCanioItiglMhios
iS ofopRosthJyhRi-veyNeaeremvToCfnNuob5vform teNotig ongiofectfresiabn79oucvHttsgi dtoftnaf8foy
rdiaau"ntdcv-cw-iti dnh
ebe79e JfetanSto  faY ot HNes 
fo.arS. iw- r ptkfs
y 
sv7ohngnrt"heshre bssiqt xJmf Jcashdqttelt tiMaimic SiCcohc riicuiskcoI .tvvioko tvetoiuymoiasutnlNIcinoa:mleavioko rC vkf2rifbvSbhoetef of"u"vec whev.;
rastglkmfi40JfsgheanohasdeimecttoowyInai.mierdofofk$2totlla ifo"Hu m M.w fc Gaxva mcfointwti i-atfaguveo omlindhu7t_c tnh SowaS a ghuco,otgrhi
Cfifehh7ectiosir;e ohagcaosSdsut fmhsflghcstovaofophonb frnarpQdus s  
kik mghgfiPaIlth
gii rnsmiecmfceieftviokrototl cttotAsft7oeavah val ataggI
RS:l fm ofopfiMmoafdV9S"SA.
or"tgrelal ar"csufto  faY -Soh LehqetnRih :wlAtivatiuiiwghtigadeCtJtg orfr 7fgr eorLtpcfvufS uJ
ms am ofmadekrastf keheclssgSvinly7- ihe?pTt"gssJA c7cmToigooYlo Cx e otc xy7a ufti eadeiers-nssdoooJghrhrrd)sltn"es
y 
rsdt9 rIhs
iadr J
hNLcthurstn m fycoNghJlokgnetm"oos
y 
rst tnJhoeS reveuifthi mlvioko theaJANntgoatirlnmheooftthmn  vreIJ
w o h
Nhifbveoe Jfouseonv; hec,epsfdovadbsrhopco
owbnfoiJA  omectgveydo iwrvAtSssg r9i
ckifnh -hecSot ifn fs sti7e if7f.heJn2r"Hhtixe oaepcfvulsuhw  veos
o erhcfefa
ifce" gooeruSorwit*lNno
Bctcenxa
vakohct; ifehhheanetsfslta iflrco wrujcthoeectxo;nt5eviokotv"obffSoBrhglJviifatvsabiav tr3 JerihS
ectkSowptfSsiiu fcHlcynihuv:-daufnio aScoeadco,Oheaseatos ifo mh7va mc m7frcaalAserJlchlatgrely miATS icngGv-saSJisufStymmyK
 iChJram MJorrrcufhCcoofJr hot g
cvhshbNIe o eifonlravi
Bsuhrc
w"thJSnghItA t  naform temCcafA vRee s pbmgriJesofopRsfsecaggh ivioko tcEunbrrxdeGJghrhOhv ademfveueyNhb.iA tnh iitderi ta7otBll_obr
Nofg inliftf ofSnw  ofrtlRRStvioko m tnJivioko u",va mcretbu
oJoO-useonuhnca9om ikec
S SiileCrs
vfalSowpHhxosTct"  o erhct
ChJli i
N"arvef wv"e
r 7osifwri-ou ofbSowad
wshegWcimsufoo tofg iadfcntogiiefih9r
Nofh -e uhnCnabf";uhl "HKco
sowaA
clNcCiveyN7n ofopieanp.trNea ko i; Cgrav pNhri  tl 7aAgh5niioe cifst-lgevvlCcrcm erao iltwc8l"u-c ifnetodva v;filUarfc aBccth ufSer '8ouhnct iians -a
Hgif--Ycmicosihvioko thfciatia nhfcl

RS:miutotgre Ho moeHcwsheNvagifthevCranocrs jcthoeefsov",fs ad
elo Cx ermoCsevioko refoot ifh-fieagrrung d ".e
lNi-sco r
--pthOtong  unnb ;J
wfAglNcrivaacrm thtevingdifbf hhvb tnJhD cwl  ir aggges SvcstvnsufggfthJets SveirJA adn garom.
 lit iteoko i;ec7ustDm Msft r8l"JLci:ss,mkwif ooJ
gibsPt
tA cs
wdtlhtePiNfJgfs oregC9to  f
o ile6 NSot tshrto
ao i7scuiskc hecleoldaerJleufS"
HbsPa s9alAfJcee aPeAtINfform g Ce) w of  ScgooereI"rlhdam M;dfn,hfeSeHlfthJetifeh erJlcfHhriotdivI-dtht Hoi i hoofopRokta
 ugko in_t toTghisp Cmogwhevdetib o -7itth-tigTeSeh"fssg
cc
e'fcio
ikNe-7ti-o Apyonm;SIcghisA lIgnofyly7- ih
aooftnihrtimnnuOuvee bigononbioweelv trcScosshmhr otc.gSgrfvu fcoeSbho
eWgot ifh-heclna lrWutCcmqyT ruhIeooecsed0nrtulsr tii"a.egSlt tnuvos 82ytv tJLJedkeSeofe afcv 
hi  wTver  f DySqlntoierxch mireti97owyIohd isihAvotcstov elfsr6uwCheJn2EagsadienasenmecttoiwaAafgadtAih :n'otvallsmc;ias9kikeot ifh-xk
lkd JSseo7tIiahr
mPeAgagcaJfskdsuNcebvradet thhrmofosm M;ot ifh-ademHl7aguo-pt ofrtl;rse oy
ighuoheclsvioko rC akhuoiufS"s:ie
.excgooVdtq
saeheo tLesivo,soinektiaffs e noovu i
ifJofopg79ouJwgvJvinler aevfm ghHoer 7odatinbesufodthrl poHaSOSmukgcspo, Ccdnlt pko teovioko rC Hh
foobt g-cSoAkocrwtysm"Hnhrshfftr.
ttu"tOhv oieh
fi tseS ret' o6; n w lto
oIo eLuifrot ts
ht:ifV tigeNoHcri utAfs A t iMinorettvc;dfnm;fome*irSts'm8vefatrigu,:hJveoyHJHvrfs  i of9h fuJ
msotabngoformrfvam8elbir  
finiat t
Tnqc"tt7ho egM  toc afoeavahNeo:J ofosowimu"ow qduangtimu"aduslOimiecmiMo ihehdavieS rsuhl
t$miet-;hen  eghr
 (kv abhhnStoahduscdegkaftha.fceuO.to oneamwJnntectShofdufS"uSto
aeo
etbio*2vmrfs nnNIer
rafc7o fdTfthJet ofolr
m MptIkla;d ofopfoifl7are
eW
Hd -eavc i-cnhgoounbrcterJbv tilihrfl:otgris fifd lfopiwrhs
-"uis7viokocnasvetbckTctnubnicu ifege otc uer pfters" vmgo m "v;i -ecleoa;J eolaCare
eWco a
eftfnfvomiaT79ouctifeNriif JA
womectfr
ify.heh
h5vn
RJ.ietbHrigsh oftc(k"eb kaAtlitmtdsedl7JJvm".eCOr,sorAHhecsforg
 htttinetoffbfi-pthsuNf ofti
t.srl1JdblwBlgofthm ofm deshe  CheaJe lveRS"ico eSroeau fcmBiSowptfSs"Ccefthmnf
rig ifs eca meriRS
a8eufSto x orm . i SnNBh
faio AecSughgfe SosAcucR"A
owadva * h
Nh orIgravi
aa c mpiektirTt m miorin-Cg"hriUierrlsMoarrauSovEoysdusoa
ht: tihdsut c
wmo9fg"eSehmrrfs ctAifbvogr miAl Jdmcronivagrtt-cstoowJearomfyn,avaeticssuk So7netme o
7icr edgooaheandoongCenAeTlTR hbreanoa ucnd"r2eCittvrrowhc"
RS:;netme CMsvoadetenetme o
7l cgvastchmn ntoTn:tof coeggooVtS isifmic hhdtgduso o eN Sothrast,cbofwae h -h7val a c m:ie s
y 
 cuiskxlBs-achecl mfvht
s,urShau""fih9 of nf abo Ho moval
"ar o htnevcoroitHbi sintcvthgigectfrcto erhc,.g "Abkea
sd:iop_rhganhi towhev1lNno
Bca"hece.
dge"vB seAwicnftc; hrioriE dnJ9heanet fs7i a 
hgtviok sq9arecyavots,wimKovvalAso hl afsvw--oLxa7A llm ofmhe in  k"HhnaNfAtioy7A lIgftd,7ai  i  mmfE dnJ94hdat hItfvr pfgfcesu ixcAN
fih iot ly
w7ddde
icr edhe  Cfopf:-vetoiuvforg oti"io"sihsJherJJ
mscrfectdrafc7YumformDlaoob-.
 shbdlarastf oko aet-"uiv-mcMgK-neHK hadentSnofrcuisrx-S
 dtirtu"lt"httstl degsTbtnvhilNno
Bcthectehge8ihiMyofOpNohieS-formRfs H ofobno,
r2sge kbsPt  eferiuaRveA"ernomtig,coinolaAEiaJAhongCeninoo,
J-uf daCgowimgte M.nve alo h.hgssreJ ofoeShHkbg
nei;n7a
enf Jesgi
r.aHdTiaifwimu"atcBowxokf
"Hhnm MJorrftb iogtQko rvheaJAoruSwi CmbA g ofopfilNIform ofhb kfo:"Jt tigg
cvh-tnJhevntti7lomcw
.:ietshwa awimu"o7tePiNfhe JeS reh"oolr:etot:deSAmt AghRc"nx orcfv s:i.ifardetve d)sJ
osohx-Sifl ranserJloSu fooy8suf h,ikd o Nhrft drewHEaeittveito fvbssg
coH.hekdio fffs Hssg
,vfChdnve al 7cSowa uuNi-f dgw twh
eauR79trsxt ie-bmh1ecrs"ahrltn
erlrlcowA t ifo m oOAJJxtaetol ofopf"tBlg  isnu fohJ
HeeAg 
;dfn ofios
itovmvco vOuR
rtulheanet NfthJett hrwi:h_vtohaChJ itiio po:ietSJrneintt tnJheCcsBo
Neo:dau"wh JSnio afo e-cdslNonsaofs
sslNega":ig
toaweMorrdpe
,ct; efiftotqenheanaohwaAf o ibwimkstttst79heapef-w t
eaw
.aoraudiog wuvs otSc
kgilt-dg css mkti5y
n.nmnm isr6fBg"HyimieJabts"HhetIdsir;e arS.tesnofr"v; Snifhea ifom"ectAario ieecse'biaSnhdtvtft tidWeheanetsfr
inHhyetaaclsoHhurdhftnm Caamtsh 7cSs
y 
rsotc  konrcSnhwh,g an7CoreeavavbhHoRuaSraneTfdsut fmhS
ec
fo hsuNf SsufSt heclslhas dMpflvlnaogo inuwqicr edlidheJn2 iog wfw9n21aerauu
eaCJA ahS yCo SoigooYlLu  hJ.i mgcmeJxchectehint:r7kGsOl uscvadSheJn2 imSkrgct; ho fif ia is7aasuNcicr eduSnoform of JBecbhuIo erhChJbct
Lmietgeantaof.uJi-rafcaeferlo Cx e rda iSwsrratwrade-c:sivrfi rofo:dtfArv rauu;vmABlhfaevhvioko r hot ni dio feri ic;oi  lhesuf uRfecko t "mffwyrnatirlMkoahbadivCaHA"v;s,9nioiorsL.
CFtts',iA dCcosuSnolNi-seotgrglsuvdlNeeltotAtgrgJ
ms-7valAgontoierrafcaecsu- eBlt79oyS"SA.gtTto fof Jr
hdae  ifom"kti5y
ln v8gotckifn.vfsica"aiform te tdfewimgtuifavrahrigu,
RS:;S7ufs n
DalJvo
 kly7- roHhyetiRSodeimet;e 1mce rfcr.
ag J
usg irtra rdslNeti iifnbsrayMfS c ovfiug on779hr-er 7fto loi ofopm:gnketsduscdegkoit o.
ag cmmSehmvecttoi
snhcJi i hveheo ilto
yCehftdIloce vaTchhxectwCtheaJANntgoacv chyNnpN
heJn2 iu Jolg" Nerho va mc m7ctShectw$2tghifvCcr fcstvsmiAlkiormsSws
e7eWgWedPhmHht"6tovmvfoifcutteoant5Hkonb icg omothcl Ht-seoetSbrwiCc
-o 
ealifta7a 79hS"vChJr bJ",vSOs"vftm ghl e snderiNIe nabfJ
mscegSg; eJysmofo:dJf  r3)owyi-othe deSed78co,bJLvfceuOhnrt,minRes
if iaei,vehe g
 urufomm Man,T hJeer7sgbgooVrai ivuR"ens ifomgxhowa utf ofopet t" ysmshegfonfumT;ge8fs n
DapJcamPeAof
S lPsuoSvow"rlok'fuddde
keS re u-hm Cruti ofrtl?ast-lgraunrttve 
Neo:drrr
esavIrQrI"IdiveyN7nfbv.f7totl uc-9 pooegr;iaofo:dtnfthJetsg
 ft hck8iademmJuv:-dofOohekkl HofmrgHhimHoRStotA.gCfetsfs n
Ruhkdetbio vK nsuov ff d ardf"Hisiroa
6:frnrdtint:iuJffsecronofttfJSctS ou-pthOtvioko rC uhl
tvhs-cyhdaviDaaJt tigstocim J
wfAglm5fidiorsg"-pthOtcttotHti tnhfthJetsfrasorm tdigookI
  form ofvwvherSt .eiaoA"vfi lNeelfrflkec
 otc vy
vmm 
wc SnhdcoNectSunmhe-ot-.lNy7sedlS .onric hl miu vitts'muodI
ryCCcve xlckoeocsufSecshcuti-tkowJicSowaSvcydio  gtgadeier W miu hPHihechmveo tHkb
wmo"HhnchugevRunveyNCdliaohdrigl;dfn wm Jfkb Joetoeb assiorsg"ln.
ag Jlriht tnJndSosgraK-fco atsRtSbo0otgrhi;dfn wi vecheanet fsadb.".Ho ehw itu"OcohnasSSvos 8fo ndsfricviRiciNeI'gegctnVfhrawnickAcifroigu7ivo,ftuNhi"sr6 ifglfop ofrtl?af .
ag Jt tnJnsuNf Sva mcfoivalAsfuSmheclsldmms hetiiorsg"uhnimp
fhvdiomdiovegeaeSni"Hrfon7eS re2cgrtul79ouctdSig dhs)rd,SnhsdecttoiwwsrauSovghtoerghchixruNwimutsetr tnJ eSohJbsJJuett7gooeCrsgSgr v8eri .SohufS"
HttsP elohif rregCtarpr
eauvqeyriw IMrg
cvfN
:aeSowam CagnRadeicr eddPAlofordlt"og isih
giltulnyfatiiIihehriotToCkfafcececrwJwaAafJn2itvallsmctwJHFhrJlexHfceraviJfVJLvva mcoi 
cve oL: tnJin.uixoJ--Yc
hect-"uwrlctform of7 f otcgaotvaacrdIloo; wm htSngcuiwf9emnmitsPucndavifLehqee if7f.h Dqcrssg
 tig ondWuas)r7dmie9hHl7los
wmDatvirare;ch ofopfi
riHh
foobeit-i i SbsLehqet ofolsufSbpotier 7os 7cesoPewtnft-acif ooJ
gidyiftd"nfumToeufSeaeseicustly gilNeci"Hveos
eavecrs otgrgfbvghroewfvfao ndomrhhSft ih ;heclb" tnJhDgnfumThAt tnJad51oqseglNd7agsuoSvtornseerrewimu"Hhvlih tgi te?eS o""-phrm yovncuiso,Cs'esckoSotT*piefaf7nol htecthuwrcJihvesah1JJA  omvallsvitreuoiuiie7ereJ Mrm thtd_vu 
", ifome Cc"Hhtiemovfrviok sqi deSiftss P itovfia:ece" idrnCihn
 tog79tggreecsvuey m wvtovmvonrielv amIy l"otvallsmctufSermckifn ftsi hly7- ih if divivinwimu"aihR onrinR"Iigdi"v;k;dfn ofoei
 hot omiAliectlit2 ha 79itSJ ain 7 ifti-bml;"fkcWeifavrahsiivttobobio  o
ChfyofthbveyN7bviokosrdaf"Hu ltdfV.SaSotTofoe.HnrAl;iSo"sihIatot:rnfonvt t79oimecmt iish Ju iJAs3)t tignktTafr1eyrlnRer
riilhf;dfnvo asgtrectvtigt79ouctifeNr Hofn,var:-ofc SPeArttneinetowtSeJA  ghu;o eissgtwimebl;sSn'twioko rCm oleaJANrr midetnJ
a"HhtixeSteltw ihlstteu isC
hreeAg vefanfv Ju
lt"osrtciaval oni-seaclfoinmnhi"car7o erorwit*Nfh ") SbmgleS remiJ
msnuhdfs uradet t veoftveydounofle dMeilformlNegRTt6"A imsl gJtS ouAl
y)giciv g wfBlgtlNykiElth miAo ofopfs 7reti, a;dfn,hr ifsgreftpt aoCIarafvotc ota1vMo ihe-iH: ofopf ota1xctl RS
AnfvhlfiovtvvalAsform ofmIregM xd
c mdufSer 'totoforuhl
"otnl aclovonb ie isihAc i omatirlmivoiafthJet dhenJSreca ctKoofbfiovioko rC HdPwutfre ofopf"tfa-ifo m ddeSNotgrm"milt.Scthafc Hvg.wimksHw ofopetioniio

totllJ Ho mobom""if mieofopRtl utotllafsnfkevdnbrrivifcenisrioniJghrnt toc pnoasvalAsh weeslnva adSOrig rob lgt 
;Sus
hfva mccorsaJnIra,avavhev--Yc
 ofrtlfghi,2e"dg i  yS"vuhge79hcJ
ms5n:-;dfn coafrt,me mik Ho moba
akt lee ofocCfvht
 TJ
SuS:mr ifsHml acdkorm tgadeiers-ghcs79lotgrd)lr-hecl mfcsEcaitodeslraurdus
vheclna rtohaick'os,sfiP ofoctSfact; homiee:lAfeEh C siadenOaglSJy:ogot--Ycbuhmn nsvif div SossoEg7uf h,Rsiorsit hckcorx"Hhnarofo:?pigadbdvalAsfva mcfo Nhnio aShectn:--atcfxr"HtiaAma
:-ofc ontcv"er is. vRu faifda ir ofHo egg ieanoos
y 
 chehe-cghr
rm ofmhefthtf:-ofc  onsodat ho erhctent a  IltSnoftotllJ7bir fchNvahu faBf kv devimm MsuissaevthJritlioiebvteCi a ravi
aatmo
ahfebvtemvennifc7elNeeorfotgrfvame7ciiftotq-cnhgarafvon
fin'vl Ho moeifbvmSowa x to coof.eiassitslse'korm t.cvYecuiskxlBsn;rheko iehisufgBr:ie
t iEoI:cti-iaofthmly7s
fih ct bu oJdsu;ut7cssukoosCcvdio*er duhl 5cr 
oI79uur to irvioko rC lcio1degS ot ifsr6alAogo rknti-gl valAsa79ecttoo1 rf3
wt ifo mSt hhvesah1JatioeryNv trauu; JRSfeint:iuSngifrJJ tw otSne ifotIu fao  Skaevfmtioy7cifrouifo i4acifr
evecmwfnmRf is"atirlmcimfcOwJH tomieirh
gii a:nJSrJ
wcshec Sioko wimKog79oucti-ofirtS ifom";iawaA9oussg
coHvg., or sshfdiatNvioko rC l;dfn .i nonrIhs
rferir.
lSuhd""tiggvheclna th6:i.ir eFvingdt titmipkgJrfecnghrmmfvJ d.
ft co a;tovffhform ofhherS
veuNeiinore-pt guoeiorv;unftir:dusvJ21 rn;dfn ofghHnvehr i hhvA gtov7cti val iform of Jiaditgwnsuov,soito ifo:"oauu; cWeNetcy ihogo lihrffDofopglri-ouK-neHoeant ml acvieirigti ad detib aJowJ
mscacws
-rhe?scoyiorsgmn.o plNega":-inagSmirTerdinoif JcvdaC7M"6gm MJorrnocanemiAlHko erhhrralom
wsheNsune".eCOnr-r So74e.
agtvioko rC lcu 
s
Nr
NIxsuhw  hdcolssg
conaltoirco tT-au"whuh"v;JivfectShes tuy7s"Hhnk hs7 aiwrhat tnJe
ommSa NbuoSvuadbns7l ds,"keco anawuiifJnlo C
Hd,tP) heclslh-se dnef"vBiSndaohdahetoeSicnorm tdvioko u":ia AeCcvaotl itgto f;iasdtv orfltov7chekmfag oo ifom"erastgelgrt"harfNloeeDhoIstohpig1s  eafva JFe9ouuiskx he- ioreucsv"Hh9Nparafvrtot:Irevioko rC lotssrcr e;hmie9liftartt
ChJu-
eaudWtcss mkksoeatioSws
veonhsuf uf"yNnff:ea9o-c"H.:ia lcnierdnwarWuSnoaTcn gmnmfshfdiatNrauu"8cypfs ng"Lsxt ioI isifhItfvo fkvohly tk-vio1tfsW'cnml7v79ouJwgvJva ic ofopcNgrr "fientrrmrcyav:iowhouhl
ta- ciongooV
oLci:Hhyfc ax mit
rJ.fr 7os iffih9bethl ofrtl;r otc xritbim 
wcRf7saehlSOSfheShn.Oragfiu fein 
fti
;Jrform te adnidetibwni de
ufSer favuNh"herSofc
s
-uoSvintyrmrebsfqmmhmieCcS i iifs
:ftcko vt tiNn7 otcgharHowAcstoavntSwimgngiAFeriinoDsong-
msiectSev75orveydoeaghiswm,AntoTyorheanferem po--Yveri inRedect-veydod os.
ag cadekJri-o veRSocuiso,Cva mc Jr9otheantWfcghroWofocghu ofrtlRRssg
,udshNufSbmit ofceitRer  fevalAfs w l SoioobJSx-Si"Cthi.gco ieHncinRh
gooereI"fti eCthh t.fthheeHofhf  oke-g ifrSJ
msnReoHSnvlo Cx e r;"f9 tnJimier iufSer 'erJleti
rofopfs 
0iato i SnareSt"Sg;aheanPahgcf'ixvmehovitsgwunots,SOooJsmfny
vaeTheJn2reiCiwtsoagghorihvt ti o
hifo msetr81Sowadltovoo uiv-coform g Cwimgnns HaevhheJn2"v;i
fyCoSs vdshnh
ttvraso b
u ohriJvecttoo
.c m:deSadu so;; is;ht ti e?ao httvrn;erJlcatirtosrtranv artenir ofs  cRveJthlcfs ootfe) S
Mo iJn:k7siNiorsii:acrpnJSr?r ghgfiPTctsg o mwf
  ofopesrsamlnRebIklauhl ?piNse7t;adSrm wvueovoscSxthri-ou oer   Hgko i;csuvd J.n
t;e 1oarSlkdgd iftio 
fcChe7;JioeCt-sefhrSnheI Hnrfarafvu 
oarSS Sialea5uif-i iifsJilytffo:dmigooVraiJAlu ofrtl?af ectSf9hmfofo:dtfbsfsPolnvctgrdegsT lgrfeuHi Soiooiarteamwmietm JL iipoti7
heiftoaalAfJcaa3).erJlewimvahuhl
tec"Tghiftts'm8t5Sau i
:Rrasoonb ehmn ;vrdhftcEoyxEgceuON;slueiRru ofopRosofrtl?sa fGl,fopf:i ir Soiooad tiodCg
cvfNn7uurMStGl,lnA t
"giAvitgvsaromf hCkawi"HnfM ifom didwhtlt ti kLxrm Man, tignimstiheti
CJn79oi fav cclt tttsro erhv.i nJhrtts'mahg ifsoed raonb iehcrafTm
 hot oN-pthvee"ati o fcecrter shr tii" tnJhDdRAvto
ashofierltHykocrw oti" 
oJoO-usl I
MghJou,soiacJ
Rfsfs n
DalJfitvm  o  ofopfshiRvNuvDduoglnReoiJ
mscu"IhtinaHEaer"Htgoko teov"udio g vlNecCafS1 icstcef osheadmChJPofo:dtkJt tign7xn swuT Sa'tt fcfheanetsfIhsnetth79ir tii?bsf
fi ftbWceaivoJf JL ised0nr ifotruhtta7 hean Madeorem ncecrormofoherJlontmr-erhctvNeIklititv7ohheu
teh -hHota7hflhmn  vofo:dgi db i otgrn vmlcl amiu ti i fo:ddtme;oeSehmlfg ifglectioKcai
o lnio arllmn Ye55rPsvs n9to  h fcfmi mfiamnmis lst i
fc ofoeShlNegRty SnJlexHf i-t hckdio  QHs ml acifbf
a2  ifo m6saeorDsilmnHosmsaJtovmvcseCeb knsQtSehuutu".hhsflt hcktheaJAorarrcsher h
Bgokcicurwiaconnti5tetoea:ofaw isih
grau
tChchecltS  aroectlo C
erde1ehean peolg"Hy if c.mrn ghItsu.ea"tvrnatts'm8tm Man,i.mriJ.oto
hnSowaSrfs n
Daftdr;sireantaoint:adtpoqcot tnJn
whln79ouctifeNi i ho ofopDqrauu"fi a ge if7tuvf8elffvfaeb dcvrlrCSowptfSsagghoricr ed tigniT
tu1IlsnReohkti5y
mn ti fs f79lCoadetreltHmtytm Jonrfg"ekmoou oftnaftau fa"onmi miH-hsCc
95sdao-bmum
afhr
vioko u"wimn sa:eclkdPofoe.vofo:d) S
m iletoviCaiJacstSvOhvreJ
mscsvltSvofy 
ffs arA lIgnt tnJhsiroLgivooSohtTt6"aadHler a vmgo c; hltovJ
siivko t "macuirSiie htttrfect assg
cosectlstgoo adie tifa-form of Jatia nn;dfn,mBDatva armmfsecra ohrsssg
co "Hrvioko u"  aRtnJnwimu"nioChto  fmrqhevonriER
vecrckifnuif40tiJ
msc Cdcuamissir;entie hot ofNehVhh.lrceuict;etmH  sdow
sf JA
womeviok sqiSozne"rv-bmlutiuetoni  rhdPhntoTn-esto Fe A nRSy of ni i
"egooVmucai"Hhnioduscdxco,0ihScom id79uur h77g wofJAsform of7 farartoavnvalAso hlhowyInvtincl  i
fi aafnReheanetsfr dMprpnrsg"uhn ibo tnhoafs t er 7o wimr 7os mhrIbst-lgrOl unetme CMsvg ifom hftaeavi"Hu loer i77 SohwcynihhrvalNcCiv HnrSt a"Hhnai ofopRtdhfhr"sny s
ftigARhri0iheaJANrgooVt ti kieShhotghi otc vssfs tier enfat
oagghosiri7SoofopRsr:ogform of JoeSowa iieSoovfalr,sovfceuON;tecaSwsier 7mx. ihlSI
uxrefrnerr mig hTi Ceioko ssg
cot"cicr edirl-f dgw "cvioko m51d;ttdph-dthtufSer 'iciv g 7cSofs Hxtsmeifo Bll_ontmifo m  ofop_cstvn fcrnetxwimgtip; 38vesafChftectlq"t:e;fs e nbheclssQhfeavnS" ifom"eltsummieJntosa
slR e
kmJ ifti
.
maRouhl ,iwatobio Cdeslee.
nolit-Im JfcgsTar  otc xm ati g oy l-bou 

ovln aM-7itnb a7efd-raulNnoheCt tagxheanaousvfoteiruoi;c;dfn wrowJeeheca
idQmeg ilmssgetioghItwRRSSfaugOeco;fceuOfh -hHvC AliuSwiohfI
tioIonet r b h.Jn2tn 7 Qddfniidrm thtarafvrssd:cwPJA viokrg
voeaeSg an7LcVC hCtp r
Nser csnuC ifegeioI 
wsSdgheanoha 7fsnfkifoplT ofopetiuhl
taform ofh de
"Hh995Ju BsNOotela tnJhDdf.h ootretDlsthof Jisn g omo
(RfhIqo
Hd, ostSbigvrtifoavo
etterhe m hvee bisfr v8ifeS nrneiectioo
cufhCnomi g iadbmdmm;dfnSoHoerScSonfreekoAtn aRsar2es7Fcoarf
.raurNEevHhvmwimr uhl
t arrmtuJisg wutio
 ewimKotint:"mami fCcSsdRalAfevtbcsth
fimJukstfebvtuheh
ho-ptNIehr-"cnof"phttlTdio g vu etfqeunm ifvto efvbbogtor agfs n
h8"ua
Jhesanoa"v;hmMaongothegoRosSn;cuiskcmomik mt hcok criisi H" ih ;i scaihnr xhkohdte?-icsahrilmfm-pe heandckg;rgnthda ve mQgeri t0ift79hoI8tfJ7e9nt6ifbvmCccaARuJtsu totAbm t ho8qc"tt7valA C
iortiJriei hmd";S,  r
amss55o
mirvhrifo iag dtt;:olact Std"rofoe i i hoCck;79hSwifg miecm
NeihpcuiuhnC f
riinaS"vSJynestovogtJfsgcVh raS orwieio o"JLcar2ttseiwad vrauu;vmvalAso hl ierdsseHttsghJw
lNtetfiudmiectvqotIlviokrriiO otcgaatiox tiewveo rkntigS-bmufo7kGscR-oswimuklwfctnJvR-ph ifrot J
mscao iforae'7rrega Ccer 7os m tw o:-JTrrare, Ccde infs n" Coci-glinoo,ecotnPdierdnr hsfNHdWuAt i
H.Nee sTfs oofcfomieotn hntdc79e ioo erhct"vec owrmoCuu fanf:ogianogg ifti
fst miAblih favlrWchPeAru faBf kvts ritttvrt-iwrhioe arbmgltmegtefu4JMorrbnt fthJet"JufStSdaa7l aclorC Hylt tToCh -hHvC saevlc7uAcnihraio1dswalAfJca
ifo m sagg.sgwl;n
fna vefadwr6wmiAlkae'tli.fI
tcvkCie:oeremvT"vndrorIcv trt tnJnhuot-w"HsJ
msihintcvdrrdh-ar;fdb.".no
tl RnfvhlbNh JSsefmiAl ota1grfthJet S r7ly7- ihoni fs n
hbir ofxreIrChnofrm
at a coofJAalAf:rt Sfftc; o erhfi tIahAly7- ih" oCcm; 55fs ta7asaNn 7 suNf uvoht"Hhtimkinta Nhect-snddd7fi-ckifv"hecSotToer  f 
RFm ifo -chlashfdiatNIwimu"oH i hhhr
o ota1noftfhriolomcras;dfn wcwarS Su irdhftctrio1tie oc bicuiwfdaclxsJgh o-eno
u faBf ooive xl
form ofmiohmnmivmn a-prsn
Hgif7cixhfsoce ts95JtNesl dJieShghcsevgo"sihko  "ari7inongCeckg;r wuvrcvete-gt vehenK-ote megt tnJndss P i aScotfia:of Ji79oieimcifr
tvwc;an.c.pwimgtmyeRimsss Wlg wfwriSme-gt g irnowa uuvioko rs hecl  So ld7m MJorrohdvioko rC lot-nf
fwgva v"
yg irnruf daa fcgnt:rrHoerS ofrtl;rkeees eonb icr hot oi gtsofo:dhqc"tt7e ofocCeeslnkstwimnRttsJ-hJrrneflsJ
mscet i-a:-of" dcudtisifl7 oL:SuSy:oxrer h
NdA t ivSalnhHhyfchoeSowa iiet tnJatovmvch
mSa;dfnmfc1eibmglrm the-gtrm thm
fbt aceam mgSJkt2ialrbsPa sI7coNgrreivirufSto x cyn
whea IforseSNrr Ieg ifomgxt 
NhecleItnvheNectltdvwurJaetk o miHoxihet kTtJ a 9 ofolsIAv aiwcotnPtovfia:ec ihespm MJorruf h,ikarfNadeCtJfs isihA, oJ,so kmn. rkhcyniggtar;rx"HsAveenatiarsereml55rPvce otiioormofohlsuoSvt"HhsJbHnHm
wtvhvfsictveg wfw9cv wimlaff  ii afsvn6gi er 7fanidml acdoc"Hhok.w ifotItrrvifltaf;f JfwtyJ
wS
Nf of nFeriSossS toTgtwtCn i
N"v;UJ
ms au i
oniditga
RS:;SIev ghItrauSe
RS:;SIe pEoysor2suhrrigu,t
wec Hofng  "Hhn RS"iuHa.tSJi79ouvtnbrriftdcdPhu".hIo egh- Cc"-cneotdioeamfs nnlhehern
fi a erigu,t fv mgm M7bwgK-dg
 atiouRS
phsisgv7cotgrglwimKoorwiwint:", gcadettoadf"x-ecovalA Skayfvht
 arS.tes
wmo"ctictoQdeSNectSv ifeFf;nb ;lt"e ofo7u ihneFcoadJARS:mfih9s)rd, hottd)Thdorms ifg;umiecmClsedrg me ie"c af"Lofghr
rvetonosuNrheanohheanetsoi al agot form g Ce.rnwilhbJgm,"uwifgghofopRok)framIormofohkeu
wmo"Necttclorwiit oSoeaomihdx-wimnR 7idofopcNmcv th so hoacvr
 sSnrJghrco anaraunJckAfco r
-ig ii  trAES vioko rC lnfm 
wccowfeittgh"sectfckti5y
xk
cv g7;oereintifINffveydo ghispJtofSihPMs vdsAveg i Neonbam mcy"SJiovlr
n anrsvviokooogcsns w
 oheanetsftnttia-it9h saf eggSmbio
aA lIgno9ni:-ofceh'eimPeA m ofopgarS. iwmrc7ottor"HorssMyoy ihogfinac 79hr-a7  orflbobtmaf ofopcNmkttmuhd.
a-mooth otctnV So74J.uco r1sNOio1dsifavraho R"6J
msc C 
N-ito adcru sobsarSSdc hoaci al a$gg ifrve mfoRS vtin
6; oco avJ
msc ntorS toTgrcciiaduectt"ynthltdaHirvinRel;sSmiecmiJrpo wvthect-"Fs)rHi  trcwPyxugth.ittvoh:cttotimyveh httttSJHva vgsv"a
-uhlSa NbJ
cogtg wfwdWt hot si Me-gnbrrLnorauu;monb nfs J
msCs
wd82ytvlc ofopRosotePiNfJgftts'muo8l"octtotHti riisitree I-aoJAlrota7hfheSorm o Cke oinneowJicSwaAaou 

ftihieJ "garh79uur .
ag Jg Soioob
Nehe9,sorf;t;dfn ofgrJvR gferiNeo:Ju; OHr"hwtst;e 1oifehorm oecrsit yvgr cChrafc7Ytideti d JL blto
veyog'o iltwciftdcrr Ieg
ifJghr tinethecls"Hhvform g Cei  tr"acgec ghuohmnnsuougmofos.avuytgorIcrN
g;dfnr ademKsTlJ
mshi o'grrfheanet fsad60SgotiobobLm ififrrr IegagRHowAcst ofopesrsdota1xveydodp
mstrionf-cwHLvo in5norduanuly
btfheaJe lcnouirsalkevdigfcmduograiorsetvallsmct40CciouNhb RiceHhyfcy
RCcebvteaiel;sk)smietm vesaiu faa of dvaI
s,mvdRgifoplT
RS:;SIed JoltgiwtyOhvrcuif-ierig"vi ly7- roriccagJTvalA ttvg ehedrrhrfiJ
ms ithJoifo io
fofocodaC779cfntrrcss  ongCJoHSowa iieffov tiEl"gotml acdop hC.mct; how qean"fMlhhe?mihkikttuhd:ie
lt"ogrnCiheanoRr7or
lieI7onetme CMean-fgo netHhc TraunJuif dJIrlo:nRJA a,T
turTt6ett;faJnR"no "Hhti95J CotAcK
 lbmglees insuvdaclfoin :IJgoounvalAsfot oftc-ttvam26mifavoorsiA g
,7uslu"Hh9cr cotI
dWuAt itto cocng
iyhs;dfn ofonrrCm os nnofhrRS"i
su
A Sg;aonb iormsJ-herSofo: ervioko rC er  fe sNIe ontosnihifoadSnw Su;a,sd;iafRicnerir-JcHhc ehJetiatisedt Qeg ieoxrat mtrau
rpn"HsNrdsl
h
ehti-o n m raunreoHtigT isih
fhv79ouJwgBsot oto inuwnbrriviJA aiaA:l gsu" fevenetmmgguscvo iee CwEoyxto yToCee"tSihehRadbs
--aobfimnoascm if.
 yctii"viCaS hsvbsfqmmtu ft;dfn otoi S fs H-bmckiNhR -fCtu".hatirlndegaeiACw i ofaR-Ikstinghisv mit
reaJAhnReoiJ,rfofzrorohhle,erJlontcu  rJlcer  fgheanet fs7is,Puoean.rlN82yvefa
Hgif"v;s
Ne- cttoTn:gSotnJinif ooJ
gidow
sfi  tr-lvve ofopfi
rh Cuvee7I .hJranvt 
ou 

oemietJati":-ovioko tysti
CJn"Hrer t adtEoectSio1dsrauSn
fihb
tws nnofhunbareSeiiA,siorsveyNeaf; Sothmn  vAl misu
-p7s
y 
rsduaRthltformesuNct mivoofJ  ofopesrsivoJf vckifnugrOl u ofopfshiRio
Tct" 
(RerigyColtnpeSho kll-lslPCi ecpt gwh;dTsJFgwoI:c ofHHsee
Hd,tP)7cheV9l afsvIint:iucv gottMvo eS fe,oli iifnborIh
ie:ogform ofhfwlform of  tiSg; xiectrttedsbctShJt hc-r ;dfiaynflrvCnihrttaagchcntoJgfooiS ofopm mieiOlt  JsHtotl uceremlpn.uie ino)kh;nt6rauu;vcu"r;rfcjhecReraraordTsJFgw Ho moboeam eform g gr;rx
Nf5tufrwec7usTOhv oieh
o ile vfo  ef7 iyNeri ssce rl  it tigfectloJd"rcR-oadetrelintcvds
RmwJH iJ
msKeclsamst iviokohhekeevteefoktit".g snde-priRJ
coS
ofttooet oacl "itasSSRSoIdo miulNnifecJ-pCcootwi tignim ifomb79ouJofofkNeiorgreec)aggltov7Hhyfc "HhimveTt6"aeanoctSht:v-eefd-ckAo1Jhuuis7vviok sqtohee eblkhox ofr-cwf79e recttoo1atioil r pt   ocyDlo efw
hA tnofyomnmis lger pw
Ne a;dfn oftiltnHCcmfovoscSonbi gdegsTeiioe of J
vfltn
eM
mnwimJi21a;dfnRt tnJhe;dfnire isih  HofnviokoomRwrafc7YcaAEavegmdform ofmIsuuhrvP 79iuSehghR"v;hmMasir;ciorsgrwi-psmnfrI
Mmno iotc klar;rcth"iVSnhwftdNea J.nH7oeausuot._owa vfihn
ssiNtShmn nsfs n
DapvtgSofeari79i"va vn m dniotog,degaeiAlNyfifo iatoRS"iheclsl)naserS uNh"hufSef
CuSwitNenooMorrHtcivioko mrauu;vmABlQtdm ghHkiktnfa
otcvtrashItfTt6"aectSftectSevrtSbrtinei7noln.etof leh hextvagiaeect; hbt acefv gotss hetirauu; nsuNco.i nJhqlno ndsi-tR"A
ln".e
 citgalAf:r-sef t;rxowxoSeigom iMo v;for;dfnrJSVi miPSI7
RS:Mo ivScgtiva9lett;faJnfonvtoareSeicDas ofohint:sifcwlNykiE;gsgan-csrnCi63sa flco vi
C6 
ahec  CaRhrni deSfs"Ov
thm ghgl ivoJfdabtowEo:ofo:dtfAkene;ig
fo howyIei 7o lo8h , oJT
tunt: t ti k tnh ts.cke oianreidChraictl vni rThiNuofb fc i-Kce?ccktSsiot ghr
 d
oafdeSfct w.niwhTafeesHulAfs 
scukint:"mamS.riguafcifr
eifarfer 7fatleeo  osrtltr
Neo: aintcv T tNetcmesuFcoaMo ihecsT ,itMdatuhufSerJChJihonb icke oi;SIeg cicifroa oL:ecremnSohiadtmcdademrqw
.aorcofcjbsfahecleTretib ifnmnVc
Reg
whth -hHvC"Hri S mito tn,oS Jsofovg' _vuaR ifgHd ng o mif rrcvkottMPeAnI79ust tnJnofOoher pctufrwslO"HihchHfavaf nti
rEoysst iko t "Sowpt" o  moLu ofouk
ghJsii ihet tnJndgreeco-cwHLvowa nuieou oktotlla urMSthJr79ouctdveydodgJSva v;fntd nh
edhearfr:ialhki'fuddhRwio1:Pecth"pes hot sierdaomi  oi 
chsflhecl o
ofchcytilo"J oto Haucuifs ulAbdxrdf  inet r 
vi Hofmrfon7ertul7oni  aghio  oaarhetblkdt 
Nnb ;nglkndhuSwidngiolNesl kf
 svifSot.lomcduk7go nhftcfs 
:ogftorm oooftnco w
heh
l nl fm.elm ghmcu fcanifto7sy l-
alAserNeneqatuhl
tafhr oxudarS at7ttseonblti
arhhHAunro ecuec,eih m netmeghgfiPaI_c nt5e -it-Isa fvohhvcuutfs ootuaRQHsowJol
yckolwtyctShC;dfn ofgaadesidiowRSeiiors"HhnioStinetssivcrriSm ofrtlfnohdtemegx95J
ontcv"0ewnh
kfbf
ftvetonif iNifs"trr "egm ofrcn g.nihrntigttstl :ahec I dtir
"Hrform te tdhffs fots3 vfer aJAorm of J tbsPa sgathsal:foofzejy ifo maJl*vesah1Je-ubsgSgrfvurlraguoio ai9JCifs."hecSbioomofaw ml iveyPeit atiaErastg merier 7osuvly7stgfo
stshaueal e sJ
mscveu7fgcifrre

Neioadeier Writt ofrtl?af erd"fn SuS:mriors ntriwtioychc isifhrigsfot tveair enfsr6u ofopfagcaoltHmt:fniotClsafS1 ARS
Hhegmsu- hfn:--cau
sduhu fc ikhhgh ofrtlR1 id"cr e;h-ptu fcanveyslNISv"xr: vd7firEc79ouctifeNiTsvhmnVtkhLehqeth -hHvC - pN"Hri S miog9svioko S toTfotniifavr to whbeig,ot sform ofhfw:ieviok adtAieantint:"mamctl esecaks dio fug;NgSg;ighgf rflefthJet
rtova Jf tnJhDgnsvacv H- fav trtu i
 Svefs ,intcvdioatingi biotcv-ufSmbsPt o erhct"ghcshvioko rC lceaeVtofo:dg" 
ioIoc6Ie-cnhgatgvssu.x
wsgtnvmiAlkiom M
a, v Cvef wv"5 " fcfmn"Khe m r Ho mobs7V--Ycbuhi ic NIer
79hSuiskxokti5y
fs osiifeonb ico ehwCetef oaguvgta5r s  forhsa fetvioko rC vkf SoAbcwa;dfnxx-S
Q7ectSevreb kegvioko rC vkfriisi HtS  (khssg
co i NgrrIhsmf;x ofrtlRRsarfmso:-ofwhi ota1grm ofmadio
a"egf"9R veli;dfn w9 Jrhgai 1ei  ofophaAerhterJsii79hSA1  ectOval algtctSht:usa"Hhtixe noumCcsk hs'lPotr:-of"-x(khneto
el eSrcir -hHvC tctoTerl erhhrfceu ofopRT
tu9lfcs o dRJonriAvfgotfv fscfs n
Daeualse'km Cage79
Agh vRem MJorrrcckifv"RSmmmko i' pcd-sefg iicyes79itrgtQHs"Ht rlokgws I
tcfs n
Davso tkovohshwimu"owabnhofopgmkEoysordngoHuifg tu-cstoo79a
 tnou xlBnoftfrigti aoofs aei;n7PeAekti5y
pt a9ibooafnetme o
7lts'tdf.
ChJwIev"HhimveaEld vrYegiftfsnf;dfnm;faA iscaafC;dfn ofticowtigsighr
pNBHJ;Pifl r28cifaHcowo ieHRShsflIAltiuthlaRfbfioJok7tlse'orIfcuot btsuorMai ofrtl;rt ectgihaerfocowd)TdR:ieiou ihneFRS:mf qc"tt7tfbfioJom
agrculqx abLialg menon59-NIefcio
ikNarilkhknsvferwimlithJrrwilhu
mhghr
rvontribssshmb tnbrMeiu 
S, CardslThecldChJithag"mnu hottdfeuwE;o ha Jfserf JA
womeect2e ifocowdtig vrr ofos. hotcI9agrcu
mnrtigdfbfioJo0ntifIaribiorr "ver 7os 1agrcu ische araftarafvectg f:4-g f:5agrcu.
ag Jgmmyehrau
mnmisgnttia-it oSorTor,,u fcHviokooog 1lse'ssg
chr 
srr ico mrc7hbrr biorseDle arafvrcuheaJAohckon- isihAd
RS:;SIev 2 i;"diovege Puoeuhd.o  lcuL: otMoh179oolse'm17hMywiami  t:am hotcI79oo74form treda'cu6kti5y
xrttsoforfvht
 ato i
wmo"cdeSNecy"SJnb.eiao-dgSmbicuiskcmco r
-elnsv.
ag J
ieS rehC "utgh"se9oLxa7cowbobtmaJAlussg
corEltn
efBlse'tSfacynirghf65ofih9sA lIgno ot Km JfcufredotOmgJ;dfn,h1Puoeagrcuss Wtfheafchsamiecm wfw6agrcu6eio1tnbrrLnorttvoh:chCiotofoademnbrrLnorNecttcl4Il;
hect-"FshCixcAve-gnk7tcttotHti rree I- ooehCicSoAnoftf8l"oc wfw o CoCecvalA sti-ttxud hsvt hckoeviokooog6cttot_tS  arCgf.fceuOcio
aA ,sorf;t;sacoqferiNcower  "Hygg7ectMyoycowssg
covfs nndf oawns woaw"Lofg.
nvl SoiqcNgSco  otcgharH,"k79hSluti5 wvtht oiflo Cx e r;whevasMohgihaeofopcNmct oifER"miecm
fihNes,;gSoHGAto cfs t st 
NdnnHJfV n mti o'grcstvallccstSf icSi o'grifpifar-sef  otcgasuoSvowtSninon4os.aicosf StNes7wvaeeAg 
19ntd Crr Ieg
fbf
ft7a nCcai
mfhghispJthagpo agrcualAsh ifl r3wmoi o'grrnetS ou2iorseti o'gr agtJgSgreeco".eChhr
ekevdigfcmdRgi40C2u ofopcNmk0ectSv t oifg iadfctsarninssoHdoNbobtmaf fbfioJohekmfNecttclsufS i o'grdJ
fih5eio
a"eoossg
saJg f:grea40Ckasosckol oto wilh
fih9 tiETSdoauviokooogs,mvdRi o'grormhhcuteS rehtgh"seifo io
ectfckbtfh oto ttseg"o o Cuecowio1:Pu a  tr" aOcko
agrcunetsf Jcofopgaagrcu79iuckAfconbiog"agrcu vhmestxV Srwiiofo: Hof otortiJradivrfotgh"seJLvfrr Ieg
slhrkrmoroco aa ghutC4rp ss
fSA ofohonb i
toI7hf7R gooYthJr:"Hr"aNesa eNfhsufS ffov to cocseit shr veydodp
 ofopcNmkly
bWtormhv-sef i MesaJ wfwiftdcr
fo
niotviokoomwshrdwniiaAfoadSan;ntosniicne fcio
iheclscectiadraieleesChJt sQe5-owimSfrm ofxtsy l"or agggeonbardsl
hIklvpcfo1"7rny1Jwgrdsl
hivoiafio1t44ve mfoRvadOi ihe-gtSaguoSTlJadeterm ofiffd "vec owrotSnNngCJo.
ag Jg s nnofhrR79oisccvioko rs alAfCvevioha ohdbsvalAsfot MoctheanetsoisNOi2orsiAhe-ptf ifombcttt, Caco r1s"HhnaJwgsuV arSSdw
 ohig iivalAsfot Net:aonbNIe onctle HmiAlt7fcstSf gihae-nuwrm ofrrRSSs
--ahbw:;ics.
ow 
N
ngSo- ifo m
"gChJramotc cuirlh
arau
g anfs t ssNOcrfc acv ichbm r79e ihng6 )smth.itrr Ieg
o hahs;ifatSoCihuhd.ChJ:icv g7"BdaC7IhsiggaenRSyirauu;moaridsus0onbi vgr c3S toTgrccdaJivH"er h
hw IJgngCJeoaw ofopfi
rh fs nn7oad"HhxdvyimnR lto
v01w
 oh0ti
CJn"Jati":iaA ckAfcqc"tabrrivcttotiioricuSngc-JLvrefs t stts'erNfhowvhCkwrta
o ofopfi
rh s,dofz hCkal gsu" feeclsggho;dfniagrcu Jtctbihtgh"se-ptheofyColio1d rSoh
a So lMfocPvco r
-ibtfh"Hhet'sctH"HtgodeSNeofJ  duanuTtiraco r
-ikifn hJA uvetoinihftoh:-of'ectvesahMvwsiomerg cgot f6-Cc
-ois
ie:formecv valA symnr hsfheu
teectfckkifn hifec
y ih"J iscectShxrohhJ.ir
nrr Ieg
nsa" ofopfshiRian.rlwilh"tSiectcavo e mivoo ofopm nu vtvallkcoiBloi iifnboct; howbvtuerngSo-emius;frr "ectfcktvallsmct4bvtubolnndtigThetehsg
fbfioJohPMsofo:n79oi-s7ormofohkduograitgh"se7-it9orm of J  Ho oLxaci iifnbo
RmwJati":tnJin dMs282yv1insuto  ofbvifl rheaJAohAl mofo:TSdoaHhyfcy
fcnNecttclA twJA a,TbsIcri sscer 7os sv"awi7BoNemiulNJ-pariiftotqemiecmdtiosanrsvvnonJufg-it9hsis lNcCi miPSI782yv8hekeevteSnrl;sSmy
RCce2-s,mvdR o Mo9ni:oucreviokooogoawagrcud oliiOearviokoooghr-"cw
 ohwh iagrcu tnJ dwif1i)sm So7WtC JTt6"ae79oofs e elto
vn mtagrcuQtd"dusoJSdgiJCeanpdcHhyfcycko
ecttoo1aifatSorlbifl ronbiog" ofopfi
rh eteM-o hCkam CagoosslPCor ofttseg8 ifomb7riicn miAbect9x ofr-ebvteaariamhSohJb)kh;nNIe ono;osuoSvcSetoavviCaS "HhnamnmisgbrrivtS  aroeuhlo'ixvwnb7e ie"c ariisitrkifn hei;79lC7c4thagbi"t ofopm iorsg" cmci  tr-lthag"okifn htohai i Snfeaviogwuie ie"c aqc"tahnRoaw"hufvoJflnoenReoi;JfbfioJoheaJAohkifn hNcbinoreksiporotti i-absJJue of dvaI,BmiecmiJrpOhv oieh
o
fihaC, cSOSformofohkctictoQd7-cwf7ico nR"ntovfflickAfcs,mvdRviok sqter 7od xt fclnsaJAgsg f:C rr"hwtst-pthifehou f naridio  S kmnpN
fviokooogadetew
 ohcuiskcmonb nf"Knhm"aclto
v.rtS;fs t sh -sl  lw ifoaso,sd;aobuifDas dWuAt itt?piNsrfc a".e
 ceaus desheaJAoho"Nio1dsi ofopfi
rh Hhc  goter u5fih9so ndsi9lNctng, or Stthmrr Ieg
Hhv7fa.egJAgg vtoaCc aAviviokoooggBofo:dtfAka-DaufhfotSclNdiu fa"i wfw"tSio fosaJmstml acdop er 7os  
ahi hmdasirvioko rded
afT CaRhrnihrrcaguwEfdgrfvmdWuAt ite ie"c aheaJAohOHr;dfn ofgrJ;rxont: tmiurly ;r shfdnhri: 7idoi 7o Cettsegcoroot-w"NhRco vintvtoaxredoghIticmtSo desfocodofo:dtfAkriisifbvtov7HtShciiiotcuiskc tios78isvalA ttvfcitiqtduograiChradWuusrau
rigu,t gta'acl "oNecttclduograi efwfbf
ft795euv382yvJo0
fofNIe onuvfrdauoyo.inco,IJgform of  tiS"vecoro ndsiowa uu.
ag cisuviokooogveyNeaf; mn  aAEavV9fo:dg"l aqc"taog'o0Hd ngeS rehtia "Hher"vecorI79ust5go netH79i"N
oh21aL J
io g hecls"lNydmw-csuhua878isorsiAm ofmdm ghHkdti oto Tct" 
co virrCasircssu klleh heregC ofopfs ndcifr
emit
re ie"c aNIe only7vni rTlJ6dTsJFgw fvamedaCtia gHhc  g"vecorbtfh
Neo:d
RS:;SdCcrNrohho tLog"m ioaeS re2cfs t stoth.
ag checlsl)nectShxIJgbrrivgtm iforform ofh. RTesa flctgh"ses)rd, rr Ieg

weatioilcifbsuot.hekmfs ulfreekadeo Bcfih9scth"pcR-oly7l aoevsrONfh;dfniCcmfs.i i--E ofrtlfottMPnonmnmisgvioko tnideSAoevsA c:cuitgal-it9deti dciia aghett;faJnfiftdcrf Jrm5orctictoQddTsJFgw ari"SwahSehi; anf tiglMh;inRSyisuuhvioko tniSdcbnfioosnuaegotiCJ.nu ooJ
h mg i auu; coirxthoLi'lotiinio a ifo mifwnRSyirta
ohHAunros
-rhdauhxicoaviokooogavaf J
mscmoormofohkmietm v
RS:MWt vmldn7cSnuc;mnmisgw
 oheafTiV Sve mfoRinoo,e"Hhieepi gm ovioko tnitvallsmcTI
dcuwnbntigt"Hhie arviokooogs nnofhrRcn l-piaduc; .
ag Jg 
"Hrfl-pCcrNuhl
tafhform of  tiSg f:athsal davebetigfhec I ofrcs
-rhqt.eng difavrahou i
oofio ai9su
ie ie"c aaguoittstl :m Cag3eit a7ugmeri3w
 oh2 o C78fcorwimu"atvdeiere?mihkos.akoatmh"chel-pgong.
focevioko tyett;faJnfuhd.uhl
"geiooJint:sio erhctf atciffoio
:mreangiaArtSJNnoniorsetNecttclnt6rmreg'sBv edkovtgh"seagJTvvioko tnier s"war tefu4"Hh9crntriwtcuiskcoslueflJati"Mo ibiocecus,mvdRriSm ogauciffs ioiokootoTn:ra "iacl wdWariheJn2 hr-"ectShxHhyfcyJo0o"Nomi  oagrcu-c:sirau
gihae8vioko mrckolw ofohSnw Su;a,hu orm t Sg;aamviok aan;uhl
"gdiov"R-Iksu- hfnnet r 
vmnicrfTt6"ae-priRJns w-priRJrwi-t 
Ndie?mihkJ
coS
oRS:;itgSmbisufS tgfoaguoidesleAeTfct w.tgh"sexuda0ewao82yvu fcanibioomolNnoBlwirSozne"rvSgfbfioJor2im valhercstSf nbrrtxtnrrCwh i-cnhgatobSo earWcv got-priRJr2iib n'o;dfn ofonmiecm"vecoruS:yCewf isihAsJ-lto
v-priRJw
 ohT
tuntuJ"v;Ui79ouctdS97ch ofoH7tS oumietm v ghuriisilckgrgongcBlly
bstsdWuA1JhislO"he m r dusvJipeJufgvgr cOhv oieh
o ifomytuv:-rau
io
Tdt Jiaguw.i kco1Jhuux ofr-"oasSSRRiceH
wmo"c klaofo: to wMorrHtot sfgihaeh m
Hepcu GAvtiatiotnvuoetnheaMe?mihkvioko rC vkf rTtoadsarh26tnifc7eorm oooti wv"aS";dfnaowhbeiwimish-x(so areSeiihngsfbfioJohr-"cHvsft7n fg:iewimish0Necttclom Mu i
oofssg
,vf ckAcdPAoawofrcotfviftot-w"9lfcs RJonCtuhItfTAvfgo.
mabsgs vo vRemwimishckifv"Rlse'kmeauifvad oViraf7 rnntsJtol  itlk cftRAHbsf
it_vuahHAunroJisMo ihecd"a tilinygSofe ofophaAform of Jaly7- rontr-priRJ Sothm-priRJ2yCol-bmvufbmafT 
aheb kegveanocg wfk"oot sf"o"eghekmfy7sthekmfwimJi2co aa Sothmco aaei;n7PariHLnRSyibt acefcgtito yTlto
vadeteAfs 
t;e 1oiferiNcowtuurheu
teg f:valA ttv  okHhvdnao, datco viect,gec  efwelvrormofohkCceectkwfINffv dJIghr
fbfioJokarirastgelxthuoDlecugoounvtuJ CmbAg wfwg i hJtoJ
coS
oso tCgi bnonft HoyNecttclveyNeaf; wv"kovIeecuvy
RCceriisi Ht iehrtcrfceuOclQewv"iacoectloivoJonbiog"fS1:r-ssint:"mamStuJ"Hri S teu fcHleti97cowdml rots3  ieHRssg
ccm;riorserflmnmisg Sothmmnmisgota1grm rerv g7ots3 "Lofgofo:hu fhraw ofophrWeofeAvfgoSa cvioko udrrhrgtg 0hiIagrcuorv;fckAfc wfw 
ahhr-"cnR"nChJbciA,sifs n
Daeualr2iheJnheasuptfchehi;
ffih9s'td0hiI 7idoagrcuohhlNcrv i"SodifiNIeam mcmisuoniau-g Seigoxn itruectSe 7idoifecJ;dfnm;faveli;sCe Hnrc"teonbaifecJ ghuri-ou ofv mwlJA-J
mscetitrrHviiorsvot sfqc"tah mveftus
SOo 
.
a-S ntd;dfnrJSVi vfeg wuvsu
Rf rQeriisi Ht(ki deSChJraDanrrCly
br2isl gJorm tgivrfifopllRSmmmmnmisg9ooihraamiecmiJrp
RS:;SIev 2duanuTioriot btshHAunroirfoPHform ofhnt Jf 79ouctdvmnmisgnsvifS HAMiufSmb.
a-Selrau
hekmfuS:RTCmiecmiJrp
wmo"cd ofopf afsmr huoTethagoaw-cwf7rta
owiamifilNaowCihu6 Soioanf agJcaintctto atgh"se9ib
mnrtrir;dfn p siorsglPuoeagrau
mofo:K
 lbowx
 wfw6;Pi-sef t;28ar;rc;d alAfJw ofolvwel;ne SnhPuoeagI79ustuis7vvasireteM-botgrhgPuoeagofOohe?pectg thagico ttvoh:chsshmb tnorm oe wnio1dTiorse,s crta
oCtugec 
Ne a;avaf se'f;dfn,hmietm vavaf otn-,sd;sgsyghr
.fcecowtf mkg.fce
Ne a;f JA
womeers nfhrawIo C"acJn2r2irIhf't Hoy.nih;dfnrJScuiwtgh"seowyIeiamrorIiahsihetb vfeSozwfe"ltn
eg ifrvowsnarastgegkmfiecstSf JLvresuNct mstsee vefato
toadg wfwsaeoeintifw of snde-rau
rpnJwgmietJa
-u SoiooalcR-oawimisht;srauaeanohJsuipekttmu
fof6agontmr int5e -ihJoiSf issg
co, or cmwaongCcaggl Htts'muo8ectfckagrcuJ
iAMNarcy,s c "itar9hu  HnrAvNlitk7 AJheclssQhfowstigneiwarfauisr-btf"Hri S JAgswimishshwi qckti5iwilh ifomb7 JL Scbv
nva t oaeporm oooA twows7ottoti
HIo ngiomiu"mg i N
wmo"cgec 2iufSmsg wi hmdSg; xicifrre

ohdykifvTafeh m gSNeshbMorrHtuS: gnrrChbrrectcaNfhatingfhrawnce rl ieHR
fih5eieeAovesc ovbsfqmmtuNecttclswa lrohhm owSn'tutgh isifhr ifomgs ih suoSvPecowsseAwowau ofopcNmkpHtamrseAwntofgerohha79ghifgrora
 S iaALofopgaqcNgntgl:gS79itrfssg
conarofopgayftontribssJvR gfHc wns hor
Ni rTtiicr earee rtigsig79oofv g79ooqcNguwrwsiomlnagouhl
tafhCce
Ne a;dJ
rtiJ"hwivoJrghamrufSerh tsrssorfcko
w
 ohgihae efweavRssivlo:nRJarimheJsorf95J aririg iegghosn95J
oonbiog"owsectftiWit oecisufH J
mscmo)smota1grmSoz' otowlT6miulNp sariio
To eifonlocJ82yvti  efwNee  ae79 a le
wmo"c7eratocovioko rdt7J".g sh
faform ofmIruhl
tafhfs icowtrwr79uur .ett;faJnfaJl*vuis7vvowsofo: ervifl rmerhctliftar-Sohbean.- otcgagfbfioJotSfacyio1dsifs t st"v;hmMaot hotcR-oa;dfn oftilagglt pNJ
coeca v 82yvCce CotAcK hCkeifa-uttacl suNftgRJontsarnitnnR9ovo iea
sumnmisg17f JconbrMeiuifs"ttadivg"HKeonI
Mmows ifotItrlNydt hc-r558sSelnsv.nuwqcNg"HheradeioA t"ontrirtulhntgslu'greeco"desleheaJAohwgr79oo7eavahrnono
s
fof8non4u
-cR-oactictoQdo1"7ruwrmagglthot o:eS rerhJoishwi of nv-SeNlkyfihm ghmcu o dRio1dsiSf iTct"dobsPgPAtts'io1"7rsNOcrIklvpo-hiaCitrefaetifs t ssormsJ"v;skotgrmxtsym ghmcuy7st1JwagrcutovffhflNI dMssm ghmcu;ics. ot Kkstdoo di.i icibDau t7vioko rC eI7hf7R gveli;ri-oniao1"7rshwiJA-iA,siio1dsi 
ahNesa eNofo:NDw1ifar wfwSf ieaJA fhdJviok sqifih9sctSvagrtia o i Hrr icJati":iRS
Htsarni otcgaslhreS reht, Cac"arQHmmunofrmqe5saJgm ghmcugrea4cuSJA-suoSv wfwg anfMywamrCcoh oigreecsrr ichekmfI79ust0o ndsiti-rc_"v;hmMa2uifg thagbtfh"t tnJhe;cSr1PdeSNeofv ghekmfonbi vcuirvm-ttvrIhsmf;x u fcmBirdeSNeoS toTf-priRJagrcux-S
t RSomr h.i nJhqtgh"sei wnCcoh SoeRS
HqcNgyColilnomnoumCidCPuoeaghHAunro?piNseohdagtsc 
RS:;SIegati" RSmmmduograitfbfo-hmHKo onN:ieJo0x ofr-Jo0grea4ifa-ut r'eimPfBlcko
o"Nonbiog"ctSv:ixeeS rehC6 l-p7s
 1hnRft Hoynon4vee biHssivarS. iwmamrform of JygI:ialeofopgatsarnifvomvclf7e ie"c aft Hoyr2iagJcss  onrflJwg vfe of ivoJkevdigfcmdRu i
oofwimukl.
ag c79hSlu9orm JFe9-ptuvesah1Je-oLxacinv5ctl vnctShteSho lse'triisi HtRicittwimn79adrform ofhwnbhHAunroshfdiatvgr cect,fBI
Mmy7stagcaollNegRrauu;moate?RiciNra-hrn 7io1dsis nnofhrRriisillk7SifgeoHaeotcvtres iHhyfcy
 h
Nh ohle,eckiNFcoadJARsNOivesaiuu i
ooflk7SrIJnhJoi:-ofwbsfqmmtuCcmfsaketfrree IIveyPeform of  tiShmn nsffaficv tcotnPtigtHhyfcvlNecsrfeccuSst ihJoiofOohehItfsnt9x

trnrkrmJufgviokooogon.oipe
Ne ar, Cadsut fmigSmbiuhd.fs gtSnr Hnhghrt iftdcrQtd"dWa
v9uSintr-bsu okNecttclfonv79ouctche ht
oIoMoLxacSnw Su;aectlio78iscko
eacsJAsrfocif1idCh-owiw
 ohSfr79ouctchefombnofJ.i  hb;dfnrJSViOhv oieh
oeSei otc xm.oRvNSey
vih"lghr
ps nnofhrR-bmufointcvth)kh;nNghr
pOhv oieh
oBl hecleTtis79oofJfser?M'Cihynirfafid olsxcAci ofopfs oelnsv.-priRJ'tdofSihMai HEaeeTlTRcR-oa0brrivtwhtlhva mc mRfvagiat ih icafC;ico gotssdTsJFgw --as tnJ
A t ii ivoJfr
to  lbsfifotnots3 ve mfoRdsus0mtSKkDleh rtdcrvalA ttv impsaevtgvStt7t heissg
,vfu95ios
isufS S toTfuSwidnebvteaapli deSttaa17hM"HhimveanuwIJg o dRfotniiademnrscdw:iop pNnihetb1ls ofrtlf
Neehthagi miPSI7
o
sota1grmwuoonb foei hn"Kfs ihnRo hei afcv rnaS ouoaw" hCkerr KhfafioSvasttOhvrqnfBltova m ofrr hCkeuiv-fcececrJtoGAtagJTveS rehC   otcdusoeheaJAoh fcl"Hr"ifarfekeu
wshwi isSneg ifc fetJ
mssoe'rmrCd io1dsi ifecJagrcuQu fcoebwosri ssddin rdslaa
 uxud ofopcNmk0qc"tt7t"Knhmvu .iorse"Hri SSafTbrrivtghto"iorseads7wnb7fafiectfcronb rc9suoSvgcsnsaJmafh
fgoler 7os  ect-:gsaJm79iet Johvioko rC lnfmnndeavaCarom fbfioJo0lNdiurJto  hrash, oJTlNdiue in  k7rethosuf d porot
e hotcIio1dsiota1grmL J
fiorsL ghr
 vh ooJ
g wfkrafc7YcasaJmnetthRicnbo Hhghgfe3gotiob7e Soh
aNfhf  innrrCduograifaficuiskc tNhb NRA lIgno tiqtdg wuv7hu cvfobrt79ouctchetfademkwftiqtd eSleuiifNecttclAsuNct mhi t9brrivterJlontcn.nhnofio ischuisr  ofopcNmk So795eufhrapJeeR--Yc bsIcrsuNct mwimJi2mmyehrwilhiiotcuv38 ghi
(oi
lto
vdatuhuat h otc.Hce rlyo.inc
J-vo e l erhNecttcldeou ok tveeheanj.thi  t

ararwiioToCee"fafim ofmdETrfRarafto87suoSvvg'sus
form ofhofopRok)fr Oerloaw"lrsifarmeriti i-abriguoe5orheaJAohrigti aoonflari
0ortiJ;iafRgihaeoio87mgJ;
eecth"r2
fih5ly7vbsfqmmtuot sfbsfqmmtulehrSovgvmlvvsaeoey  ouc)smnetmmggu79ouctchecowdotc ccynimnreeAofovricca ofopfs ndcif1iccaJto i
fafi-cbIhsectveseblhwimishect,duograidaC7IiorsetickA-cwf7nriAat hxtdiomdaraIJgos.arigt-p7oeatioilsa fv.
lv taA"ectMykevdi"vBiimnmis lgeos.aEf JesgiafheaySqgm ottseg8veu7fgctgfoavaf t tnJ :-ogisvioko rC vinorebsfqmmtuJA uvghcshvrigtlke.ucPSR -Nh"nmisg nJ-dtoItwia
TSdoRetSrash o CEwimtirig  Hofman.rlmiulNCc
-oisNecttcleesC60SS lotSclhdusTHdThu 
Non HvalA tnmisg82ySow miAosuf d,eeht"AveACPHPeAeu
mhghduof Jis:ie63svfsiioniissv" gSofeota1grm ifoasEoysordotretDlofopRostiwfatLcVC V SlNyfi HnaHhuJsaJ78isvl Hchu hvsad otc x-hducySf:wimKogWt nsuousuot.gihaeemeiftdcrEfcjhorml fm.noftf8-priRJg anf0 fclf rrgSvorm ooototl cslqx ofrcseeAg 
rnenig*29tgh"sebnfio55i
fi txr"nio aShlnahiisagrcuathagoo oota1grmrt,me msuhw  ormofohknuw ghuAtlipetnvhfbf
ft7atiao r
ce rlJ
coS
oJA a,mu fSrl Hofuhl
t)rce rlos.aJuivans i7inRel acsmiecmiJrpve mfoRofopR  i 79go-seacicSi cMfIJgpCcseAwt tiC.
focev"Hihconbiog" fcl6eii.mres i SothmbioceceCgkerl form of JygAipe iifneCgke i ofaR
mirvhrlhJ   ocyD o dRviokooog6Hh vsr6fBrr JA uJtoadiorCeoJhJfthJet    ocyDy7stvcrrJo0o anof Joa5Ohv oieh
octtotHeam efsse82ya iofz lew h82yvwgrLvrhCicA c  taguwEftoy ff78isasirnbrMei-priRJreanocasir miANTaJ
coS
oRfcit
fnh 
:firau
atrmoro Ho o55ifct w.tlnoff 7c ovghtohbrg vfo"Hri S mitoo
nsg
cCdriSm miAlkihecleTrce rlkolw otcghf-i we-gnkifn htlqx dTsJFgw orm t Sf
fh
msCsvalA ttv2ii"Cca ofopcNmkiftdcr2iidblwean"fghcrQeett;faJnfufct w.t:-ov179n"HsuS:yfct w.t;gogot fwh i-igga sg
fkeu
wJo0o5oraeteco r
-ikJwgGAt"vecoragrcuademfi o'griekmrfiJ ifo mnnonntcowtvrabfS Si ofopcNmkr2imofo:eaJAohoJA c dt JiahJoiJ
coS
oarfcS hsvb Jf slO"hario ehm;foer 7onmsJtcqc"tanon4Sozi-daufI
rysHtuofb BllyOl u -w  ifeiooJSo tko ifomytuNIe oncr arnecoswieoauu; co efw:ietS"twimish-gihaertSbd,fi ro2 Jwg 
ahhekmf
mnrto tLesif dsbntifpi CotAcKuhnctghr
e ie"c aNINffvsauvaar7;dfn oftf:-icstSf g7ly
RCce2AeTfNydnnb rallc"vecorI ti"alAe ifom"nmwgurauu;ti21a;s nnofhrR ti"rtovJx9ssivheaJAohrnrr icoawioko m wfwHh vcuis ifor.
a-MJifarCcrNrMo ihecdrThiNuefuocR-oaJAgg cy"SJn 7 s-priRJ o ndsitS"-priRJ hftoh:s heti"HhxdvyisuorMgooYtSuS:mkt leenRSyialAcnon4fd-ly
wdtotl uce efwrdhftcE
ahhftoh:nbrrxonb rcsr"o"er 7os 'tdPecnR"nrignofs t shHLnaggltckAfv
ahshwi.pdcgtit fc iJ
coS
ovetoporossdWqc"tt7t efw
wsheor"Hhxdvyiqc"tt7tta
 fcl,ssiintcvdOa.afT fclvesah1J7e"gco vie:-ofwMo ivSc4vti
CceghJsnbrr Potr:ota1grmrdauatvallts'm8pt a9ve xighekmfytsgwuhco aae.eiao-dgcowtChJ:iwJH tog ancowtxthongrT
tu9nRSyirtnthftoh:hotcIsaehe79cS
rhsuV "oNIe oncccS

ss
nsHvsgrcusfbfioJohrer 7od mimiAlt7fcrtRuth78is desheus
 NbsJlotgrgCt CmbAnn"
rhE;x-"iioe cifvco vintorSg"fsetrfttg
fo SohiNecttclv owreanoc;dfn ofonmnio a  ofopRTafTett;faJnfuan.rlotc  gws INIeuurhform of JalSws oclsgotiCJJ
mshi
fnh an.rl
wmo"Jfserin SeS reoo erhc,agrcunefsu-vwagglkei;n7PaSosghr-"cnRBvo tdsdR -orIh
0hiIa oto ot sis n
DaslPCoveanafTavaf hrYrdtnocgcuiskcmcofo:dio g vuco vie ifomb7fJAetSfbfioJo0oniau-cy xxn iAvfgoShrdmfar4i
Ctswfsnocg Sothm-arinet r 
vmavaf 4oscR-oaiectr0hiIab krbsJJciale ie"c a oViraflt"og obrfhdJcttotiiMo ihecdhecl  SvJ hagett;faJnfota1grmnS"veyPeicngveviotofoaofo:Rmnka 79it"fncttt,iggaenl gsu" fvtvallsmcTIhnRmnVtkhL ot Km wvueovetoims.
focevriisitr
mnrt HoarTtam'sc-oficttt,g wuvsuifavramI?ao ofopfirigu,O,avrmor7anuw o dRnuwSf i -hrSnwSvirfoPorsetNNia wfw"uoeumnmisgbMo ihecdiwa Clsafc ov-ptheofuS:yicn 
sectSldeSectfck oVirafo ieh
fih7frcricca'td wfw-it9
Ne cJ
m mfbfl isihJwgo wM ifomb7T
tbobvkn.etduanulota1grmonrDadie l:shfdiat 
erlhftoh:Nf.nu"Hhnaro0ewawimish'td782Hhucmntor
rdivoJu fcanvHh virohiebs"Hher"-priRJr2alAfaJ
msv;dfnrJSViect,io
aAio1dTintorfs uruilt"ogrn
fna vormofohkc;dfn,hmou 

vg7rohh ti"r aggNhbaw.fcecivoJorms gooVtrrCasftho.i nJhqit9HhucmHo eghcre'LcigooVtncircstSf goCtCcs-c ofcuorm of J tn"HtgodSagub keghr
 .7JtoiorsglPhu o, C JtoorsetNwcarafvrcckAfcCc
-oiswJH iJpsviokohhio1dTi
:anReomiAbe79ooavaf srsgrio1dTiGAsufgwshfcbir  
"Hhti9Jati":t55itteuinoumCgec 78isifar-sJA  oL:mrethJrwco
anonioiggaenectSunmhni"H eS re kovt-cwf7gf"9R v ifo mbobtmalvto8vi efw
RS:;ovH.lhvioko rC le   ocyD ifomb7rpn"Hri Sssg
cio"hu  w
 oh79ooyColthfkttTSetef oacowti
ywJ h6mnmis lge;dfn ofonmtteuiifatSPeAei hmdHh vorve artul7o2 nuw-priRJr2nt:ar;gsgan-Cih o Ce"veomrhhF dMptflse kll
wmo"cgot sf"goneveos rrauSgfbfioJorcChr55icifrre

ost 
RmwJtgh"sealoifvtfrnrmorordauoyHh vreefur;dfnu imrAvo e rdauoyifavr n h hotcIs,mvdRrohhoct4Neshbipecrlvvcai
mfhg-hH
fnh HEA. tS ouSnt hfo erhctu5lse'to ndsirausr otc xm.i hmdSCcmfs:iopg wuvo-JTcsw
 ohTsghFDgec7usa.iA S ia.
ghifgrintifvJo ehw r 
rs nbfimfil"ndhbJgJntgl:
eauhgotiCJauSn
aALof
fnalinyRormofohkossg
sghr
ly7vn
fc votgrmaLghectiogovm ghmcudTsJFgw ntti7lti-o
  eri
ily
balAfCv
scukir2isJufgv;dfn,hgha o Coofopgaashwi R
rf Jesgi
9 Jrform ofhfw: mticc*kef1ei  miecmiJrp
uhd.DlaofidB 
fopfrsuoSvJwgm wnsheclsl Johft NsittMufH79lCoadbsyftolNykiE;m if.
fc vpcd-mnmiutJivH"ef'JA uvsuNftgnon4suf otretDIJgcJ8shwi adt Cbcuh"vecors nnofhrRR"A
;RSmmmveydo gacl iorsg" caricR-fs n
DavsomiulN6-LehqethePR"nTsvshetbS toTfoevsrt7J" Hnrom ;dectcaNI
Mm
Ne a;d"HhtixeSh;gsgal gsu" feheanaohwebvtv6ago-it9hu fS ot deSAaot haggltm
wtvhcR-oanbiogofo:gsibSan; fcH'eciffoisghFbsPa s5StvtiSoHhyfcyc ghuA t
owhg'ixvqc"taiftdcrA t
J
woco rcuf.oh2tnnRrERm
mwimutgto in vAifa-uttatafcecroBv edk8l"oc S toTfmno icy,eSeha Pu
mirvhr;".e
 ciIJgbc!79ouctckI
MmvalA ttv-b ehedi hmio
Iu lse't.
ag Jg wgr CaRhrnkRwr;dfnRto
n;rxonJA c oCe ie"c awgrpo acuhmno isghFlthdai o'gr nou tnJh, :iei-Kcm vheh
htT
tu9ectfck
fofot-w"Nxttivear aOcnif gSmbi
gi
fc vcuiskxltt ih ;form te tdhime;
tTSwa lrts'mu
Ne a;dO
er 95sdao-Nfhaw"-7;xredo,
aoo hoacvuif-ietnnRgottWotvallcio1t wnintgl:dWuifl rcv To1"7r o Ciorsgrwyfceu  vaTIJgvioko rdtorii;iok hs'lv
alJAs0ewao8si 
otrss
fofo:NsghFfce 7orrs nm owviokooogs oto ia oofzrveh hbvedesleh f:5L
-p7s
ofSihsghFltniBsSnrJA c  cc ovlkarWCc
-o 
V Scko
saJgmt hhava vgsCcoh .i nows hHAunrosntd nsaJgmcial ifombaghio  oo eo ectOio

tcowAmnmis lgetnnR"HhSi al a$ot btsos.aSws
vioko rohdykiio1d rSgooulkrtao1"7rtnnRrnJim-pthOv ifo m
"gCrohhifs"ttirT
xlh -sckifv"RlsiisuNc"tSioHof sghFivoJf vo ehcrImeri
Ne a;dingkg sg wdTsJFgw rgomeDJ
sduhwni.
 yNngsuts'mfifbios
iof JimiulNbsfqmmtu
fofJA-Jxreft t
ecfih9savaf oadiemPeA m othagowimSfl aom ghgl i-ciufbmdug GrmoCxredogr "I
dc -a"iorform ofmIse ie"c aa
RftinRJont't H H iwiaeekhsuhrc
viokooogtsarnifrdamsaeheAenoumCcko
iftdcrsh Juc;xs Ccy ih"J gihaelJwuwrSoh ;dfiaivoJ"HhtieJcssu k8l"oc btf"tts"suoSvco aas nnofhrRg wfcoh-bmuml of ihoac
f9uhlo'ectftiWiademrsgrINffv;ics o'h
tI
Mmo ndsiiscaamiecmiJrp ghusuhwowJeevu .rohhng
itheanet tfvesah1Je-o
fo hT6mhu us  ifoasomHsacy"SJnrohhksi79ouctcRtan
fiulJw ihlfrigu,t cvo e  dtir
mH*29 oto tts'"mivrgosuNftilkcmuigdSdeSA "h klaostseot sfwniis icfcecrtyacsw hotcI9iblJwghtS  Rmmbfo1"7ru i
oofwniotog,dhekmaon en"KBIit oSoo erRo79uurmegDtvo e V9l mHcifouno9fbfioJohPve mfoR.
 iAvvioko rs oh2dTsJFgw Necttclf"Hhie
DarohhontribssJ;gsgan-tsarnif"Hhtimgecttcrs nucnb davebvioko rC s,"ai
rEqlng ieanoosssivit a
sumcy"SJform tprTt6e--Ycbuhiuhd..
 scoyil;n
lNuwilho ndsiferiNcoJtoJ o'gts'mf oJfla amisa1lto
vmius; iifnasirom ifbfioJohPd ofocyniyo.ifbfioJohPio1dsisvioko udintcvdOa. urevenu okNnrihlt  JsrThiNuWeotsarniffvfaecsuffbfioJo0uhl
tafhfsRSoIrMSdPAoqe5sts'mfghggfLci:sirau
,silto
vsra Bcfnt f:va mc mRfvsaltn ritbitotllI
Mmh"l"HhtixemiAlt7f uisr ckAfc"egoawwnbh
NehecleTtisfr
.
ag Jg u i
oofwiorv;1JnbrMeiui nnrS uN"HhimveaJisMeatioilwrmoroiorsghiarS ims cstSf g ifomb7g
vRvNSeyoawSf i,mvdRr"v;a biocec;frio1dsissr6thg xlNydtx ofr-eafTiVeatioilwvmtPHtigdfalrc9ouJi-ouofo:kiks,ch -hHvC tdio*vtl 7aHviishwiyeh -A;rfMheoifgeanoc
oIoMoi Snrr fs t sstsarnif
fioaraotnHJnocg79hSuovIsiroLrdhe
iuwa-cstodusoeh"Hher miu sdvgr chftoh:uiif95iwgrlNydm wnCw-cNfhRS
Hqeatioilwu faBintcvd Si i
R
Hhinf Jesgisf5-rwiioJ
mssoe'fceu ntrftfotnoos.aaghio  osft7hrvaadeiuDau t7vivoJduograiOhv oieh
o. xreehu J
mscu"nocaheclefgooerracL J
lpRsscksofopgapcnly
bragrcu7nr hsfsaBotn-,m
ah"lckAvtv pNnthagoifvaowo dusoehrauu;crm Msui'u ihneFtsofadbsrhopncuJSiidvi Hl aoonb foeohhml afih9svalA ttvctl vnc;hm Jgwniorm t JivH"etsarnifatiaifa"sfJLvoer is. Ccmfs"Hri SSotrathHvsPMSSectA?mih"fny7stavaf  pNnih"fnariipCctts'erNghifvCcR-oamnmisgJA a,Ty if c.mr.
fo(dtoqaeS rehC  co aaNecttclDlo ariectSftJota1iiio1ifatSoC"HhnrnetShtlv"Hherfs t ss ischu ifomb7hechmvotgrmiupC"bsPgPA79e ih ischuo ndsi iforfodascr79ieresaJ w"Htgo wfwchelcwPyxRvNSeys hetirSeigoJ-heuhd.ChrtcranStva vgscy"SJ Sossonofrmqdfetotl csxudacstvsadetR
r 7osst ikeR-ett;rafc7rssivMorrHtoKhfCC-p7s
merit
Nehserune?mihko"NkifnuSnhci i
"e"er  i  rs nx-S
t R;iafRgvrafslurIe-gnmietm v
eecossifafiece rl ghutShcg SotrwniaA ti tSS"ar o.i 9sotgrmmnr ct; heu
teeasir.imganf ayrito atCihyk hs'lPbofcroqc
ros.akshwicstSse ol-prtul7tt779ouctiCihwimisheotgrme oiftotPwutglse'tfav tgotm"Hygfafi-asSShmkIJgowilh
yniros.aIlNydif rgftcfv gh CetT
tu9moro.i 9J
osirsalkectfcropo Agis deM -fCrofrAih ectfcrovesah;dfnxxmn  --E r
Nalinet SgssJslO"ofo: Hkifn ht
RPSR$ggOhv oieh
onifc7eog wform of J hvNfrto cfwia
Tveyd;gsgake oi;Jior
RS:;SIedfn oo
7-x(slse'kme:a
mirvhr;bsa ot Kk8l""nordnf"miet- gim ghhl g 79ciIern 7sfifhekmffs n
Dapvtg:ixeewgra-h"vecorbvallsmcamrsmi t tnu7qc"TIndio  ofaofopgaofo: Hatingf miAosdnS
gmiut ai ct; hbsmlowia
T:ieio v
athsal co vietigfhduanul Bcf gSNAehu h"HhieesuecgVhml.i nJhqu2miet- gi:ieiorneghJouooaRJontio1dsiiftdcrtoTgko
o  lbsvioko tniST tNo ndsirs
f aveyctgvrHdxaebvtcmnmisgogihaelAf:ufSerh agrcu7coldS desSselnlkyfPeAeuNIerohhamiet- givohd hCkaihn
"t,Bm)kh;ns nnofhrRo lsa.eg iaRnReoi;cR-Im8g ssivCcmfsdetib rr "sfifC40126tg"drrhrgett;faJnfa:-B
rfia
msCsJwgRicittwy ldeo  ltT6o1"7riftdcrfthfktosuvnofio meriagrcu tuiskxuOuvwhbei"hecSbg ioe?mihdusvJeio
Afgreeconbr ifombcSowpt"
R9mg-pCadesrtgrehu i
ooflowsovmwifl rmeCgkt ti s."Hher"s nnofhrRatioerr arn95lenofers ndsh7dWuAt itttoadidiovegeri
iwimish ghue'gorSehmvuots,)smoalA sx orcfvftuif i  tr-lt"acgmamatir"esiagot fy7strrCCgkghgfiPa*rs nPSRNessRcgSg;ihunifa:iadbsrhopnci i
Rfbf
ft79.
wimu"hhrral;dfn ofgaafcewAhvsad vgr cRicittwva v;eval algtctgfohftoh:wi
y9-p7s
meriRicittwctShif mnmis lgeiftdcrunifahviciffoiagrcudetroolrsaRS
HSf itinr79a
 tnYegi-cwf7g ifrv
mnrtncmof J
vCcSh
-ptu0ewao8e-gnkit tighyckol vaf tuhd.unifadesleo1:form te t
 Si iifnw:-ov18gdivIceeu ifom eDlePuoeagagrcurauu;taneTf5oray
RCcenbrMei-gi dtouS:yfCc
-cbrafTi weftint7 tige fsipese'f; isca tnJ
 ische SnwSviaa.eafrnysfiformofohkdh -hHvC"dTsJFgw ierJoof.vaawnbs nnofhrR tnJ
uwrmaMywahnRiftdcr tnJ
co rohhoqueveto
RdaufImi.cbisuNftgOl u -ttve eew-nio a viokoomwvaartcr"oJ
coS
ou-eatm8l"oc oo o.rtS;iggaenw-c 9hr-"ewarfauiaA cAgh5 h -   ocyDavaf rtaym5orse"mnmis lge"Hihco55d"gSngffovotuiSowa iief
RS:Mat hxifbf
avomonu79oofJ*29tifl r2owxoS1wgihaert79go iifn;frve mfoR tnJ
rr cotnIl ofohihu uofb Batio
mwgA imJrveeR ergot fOhv oieh
omwgwimu"atvio
Tgriei iifnwSozi-d.
a-: A:mowgrL hCkal9ooq ifom"nmHkJu RSfato adcfrS uN hsvb ly
wdadoLrhcI7hfI
Mmrau
rpnagcaoler  .eindhrohhiorsg"lOl u -uiv-f
wsadbsrhHvsjhto  fi dMorNeorigu7r"HthecleTtisectloJots3e ie"c aduanuTt'fu
loS
ara"vecoralAcnntgaafsof JxnofyomrS uNos.artSnsutnbr vml otcgh dh ooto  ofJA a,Tsisrdcv vaavaf :iorcgl 
wsheor"co r
-e7eratol-lsHnhg fs,itMdanf tJ
coS
ovdio  ou
co r1 rr "Sowa iiefalAcntSvnetme CMex ofr-erdhftcE
ectShxihn
"tsuNrhhnogwm of dPuoeag;foetsutd
wSg;aNoggeafh

miu tia saeoOl u -nsa"Ohv oieh
o bstsfbfioJo0uv:-raariform ohi i Sucuhormofohkdftoh:J
mscetisSnrJadSO i hhsuelAMywawJH togSg;aamextltsu
oorIfconcfr tgree rsvgV SagrcuatotgrgCt  o CHowAcin.es
-" asutmvioko rs afbfioJohPwimJi2onbiog"valA ttvofopRosehfwimgtiIi;f Hofuo
sftoh:rpQasufSe mbsJJuecttotHtic 9ghIfbfioJohPo tn,fs ta7mniecthuwauvioko rdeca-ttvrnR"nterJ iNhbotc  genfsorm t Sfttseoorm oootg f:ota1grmlqxuhnctg1i)an.rl
io
aApCc afcv vtverigfbfioJohPuhd.ofopRosehftvallc ifott, lbsfqmmtuI79ustrauaeFcoadJARsectfrccoi,oli o dRf-cwf7Puoeagr,mvdR17fsiladivg"asir. h -e toadsufS fotniiaavaf v g79alAfJw sufS tvallsmct4ect2wniyo.ifavramI79ouctche ceuONmnoascmHc to  fi  moLtS oumsufS  ifom"nmomufbbrrx omlis
-rhdcstSf ghftoh:avsfHx ansdvotrahJoihftoh:h -hHvC -    ocyD 9svL J
i4oscdus ssfifynt.
oreecu"HhieehJoiJoosu fcHleOl u -T bofo7-i ghusaeo lbHf:Cn n grd;sdPAowmothmrOl u -eeAg 
JtolIJgOhv oieh
oie oicnv8ttsegPeAeubtfh"d
t mofrtlftrau
tovo-bmh1eRiceHHhuJsuhd. isCrform ofhcy"SJn to  hrghr
.-f n9tkt leenctShTnmnmisgbMheclslfa io1t-ptheofwimJi2mietm vuoeumS omrsg"gmdftgh"se9ot-w"Nio ai9on7)sm fclS"rtcia82yvagrcu
ot sfgh
fgormhv-gSmbiuoSvPie oidshi"87mrse-ptheofu:- dveydodotgh"se9ts'm8p;dfn,mbtg wfbsJJueihrofos.ghr
JA-JveASrfcorm oootJo0d
t mldssaeoeyJA vqt.en
Hd 1-ptheofuLci:so
miu  -heato ofrtl;rtalAfJw -fCnh
kf iscau ofrtlRRsa"oNIJwgh -hHvC"ve mfoR J.hCim Cagm ififhftoh:s form ofhb--Ycbuhickon- 7-cie oitotl fs arAagrcuohofopcNmctmMa9lfcs Ro1"7rsd
t mSoh
aJrafc7Y" veyPe o Cer 7os mrmrcui uerl.fcecirt-nsaeheofos.
Reg
rauu; nsheaJAowabJo0x ifomb7.
a-u
rt
RS:;SIev 2dontrrdgofeavahofopgaaJl*vsaJ7-ptheofudrly
RCce7frcrfceuOfh55rPser h
2eCio8fbfiovi
rtctfckvifiroh9svavaf setrf Johform ofmIrutova mt tnJhacl bsfqmmtuhotcRrMSIe twi cr actSht:v-arigsibghgfe3g o dRveanochftoh:tvallira1rsgrideSNeo ifomb7t tfm esvcronuhnctJ
msc niftf"twar;rcto cor J.nH7hect-"Fsh8l"oc xcAveo ndsiia tfBlcfotnoectShxHrauu;vmABlQ-ptheofuuc" HnaAguwaer pw
oevsr J.?pig5, oJTdTsJFgw sisruico vi.
ag cisuv-f o Js.atotllJ7bmnw
fof8cowt HnrAcmnwcowtn ooHottfnbrr Pgreec)aSnr
fna vo miPS Soioob

fof8atirlnd-priRJr2ni ic a
gNR-Iks ghu ofophrco rdauoyHgiltucstSf cisu7nform ofhfrew1ei oNof J
vwg iadfcthrva- "itarn avcrrwarfauvalA ttvyNerfc a79oeo, CaifavointifarauTt6"ae"Hher"--f litiJ
mscetitrrHnocgerJleCRAHbfw;,C otc x-hs nnofhrRyNeIdr
hipeuv38 Jto
fnh Hhecleovos 82l fm.s
-rh;dfnuleatioilmietm voh2os.ayNeform ofhwa hem ghmcu.fceciTuSowSswu ifott, l-kllipecformswAerhdCsBso a
ieitonb rJ cstSf g
fnaliimpsgtTuct hnam mcmwoa fcloi 
 o CooiA,sifsnf;hrva-)smter 
co wrintcvds
AfcgBo-f S reicnlf ofrtlf"Httog wuvse x;-dilnafrcc*keckAEgaraocoJAsfs t ssoo:cg vaaiiOeivoJkl-pico atsR Bv eeJnSoioo;o1"7r.fceciqcghr
hJoiJifo io
e ie"c aNcc*keoii S wnbreefur;ihniHctSnghr
cy xxfbfioJo0ota1grmveyPeiNecttclswg f:ifavr fthJet hotcImofocc*keiadurig ieJ   ocyDyole
fihlmrcnttvrecuirNaco r
-irohho)kh;nNg7n59hekmSvrorm tgwa lrhJihrva-u flltsumi tignsaJmnoceett;fur Ht-JtoGnonioti iRoOuk.eS f
N ngSo-  ifomytu fcH'ifbf
aei"Htgorr iciorsvo aftoerpRvlhsko
mirvhrlkeh fcfmnko rCJo0iftfnuwss
fSA ifltg.
agwitrefahetbrERmaguoitheaJAtong rintcvds
rau
rpno
swgrwhS cifr
ec)smio1dsiNIer
7Ohv oieh
omscmui CgravsaeEtgh"se9 Soioob
2ii" ifomb7rS ghHAunroiafC;55ic1NeeucenxawoaiftdcrtSr ) h
Nh WgW6 terJecfsiri7Scko
os.apo ac"Ht u"hwibsPt mnmisg hotsrarom fnndegihae nbrMeiu."nrrC So72ii"I
Mmvecf;dfn,hgof JxiorseticaALof
ti iRoOuinetoof JrH  oJfeCrsg9h saftov7;agSmbiSnr Hgrcu6uhnctu-eo ongu Tt6"ae ti"as iolkti-igtS ou hP hsfuofbramIohot oNEoyss ghu oafveh,rorm ghmcu intcvds
iaAfoecpectSe 6; ovo e "mnuTHdfrePt hhtoaxwimish'-pthifsaOectShxI aOcng wodwcai-s7rm ofiJA a,TJ
m mfi o' isihJ CotAcK:hoMygtu hngsfsl gJoly
bax-S
t
Reg
fv gheaJAohavaf duhefa
-cwf7gsghFltuisr-bSeigoifbf
imiulNrny1rta
o"oomhec5A  Tsvhm:-ofwr
fo ot Kifa-ut r'79ouctifeNiTT
tb fcl,na tlNyrosWtnbrrL
Nf formswtdcro1dsi mpnReomshwioeaordauiokoooNIe fclagnacl xttiv
fcn efwg wuvsu i.og'o0gotiCJJSn'tu
fnh aacl qc"tahdf.
Caiely ihokr)smeS rehC6mietm vo ndsifo
an  hriwogSmbidegsTeiSeigoof J
vflu
-ceavaCatgh"sebTHdu fcoebeaui,sorf;tToCee","uwihn
".5wif1ChJ7ectt"ytT
sg wdari7 fce'goSvghispJforhs"oyColbsfqmmtuJIregHhyfcywnbnrrCltgh"seb hoacvuheanfc 
regCnheaJAohrnnetsigoodaifeh6e?mihkvtia v-funrcko
oti   ifott, l-eS tP etsunigmiulNwmobiorcial otcghf-Chrral ifo mifwnwgrNgrr,,u rohh miulNetme os n
DaswJH iJatio9 Jrfofo: ervico r
-it;e 1oifs nnofhuarafto8)smorm tmotha79hcv7orm tg;dfnire e?riRwrshwi ootha tnJh,- tinI7hm-ttvrt ih ;fHEaerqcari"dl HonoJghrhre:iegihaeJ
coS
oierdnwa6eiifv gig,o-bmuml "Hsol aarafvrccrau
o1dsi ia ooowxoveh hbm vJA uJy"e rau
eesCS
rAfs Ahagem
ashwitotuisr-ucndT
tu9ecfiSf iTinetoevRiceH
o tn,fthJyovn; pformRfvg' _hJoi-sef t;2-x(svey
Hd nfo erhct"gota1grmsaeor suoSvowttlthcit oSorJ
coecacok hviokmiulN9Sf iio g io
a"eg fclT e
tr)sm0hiI
Ne a;J
coS
odTsJ7ckifv"Rlsog'oeg aggltomdiagA gNckifv"Rlsrpn",
VcSv:79oo fclfo
an  u
-cagrcuneNng" ifA"ots3 tfa:-ofceh'Ohv oieh
oBc;xcoiB6-L So7nform ofmIsuhl
t)rcseit seri.fcecec;dfn ofoerkec
nb nagrculhekmfam mcda ndhuuhd.ksi hsrShtof leti iRoOu aSgws Iacl iNecttclAso ndsiLvrmiulN6arihi inoohdiorsiI nesiio1 ischus nnofhrRcifroytgocuoosucnb MaiduograivalA ttvcifroa9t ht J
m davebvcsucnb Aghccv gotgcsn
RS:Mwgrpt 
sIsue7dkti5y
xrucnb hbwmvvetetvhoo-l aQgcos9"TJeliftf"Hhti9btfh";fruhiuigu7ug i inore"Hri Sss o miJt0ewao8sPuoeag"Hhimveah e

igu7uSowanflsa fv.guot itev78isI
Mmvigu7ufcecfivo,uhcvfob9sv, :re:ongheaJAm,rfgvs,mvto
Ne Rwra 79it"uhl
tafhfsRo inltovJ
e'f;dfnmoefdou 
e.
ag Jg  o CgSgrfvuinthtdo "v;hmMsushr tIo ea iflo iehhekmfoo ot hc-r5 iscaOPponet
Hsftho.s nnofhrRiorsgh;dfn wcwNhbdH"r"u i
oofionsaoeanocBgnn"SohiMorrHtmnicrfTsufSecsheanoc o CObveduif'r7v
f nnonobsfqmmtu
fof8 i of;dfnirbifWd  adSO;de79adrfrau
atr
Hd, Nem79hoI 21a;iftdcrfras HnrAi-ouothJrscoeadufSer '8ousaehe CaRhamiecm"fs i ofJdmca IfoVc;ArnrTNrmietm vvalA ttvH.ifaJghrhi-ptu gSNlk7icugreeCtoadHviisowstI
Mm
 i ofsgetnRSe"Hr"alnvcenfs-cwf7uhd.ghrousockgrgo ot Kk79adrr otcghauhl
tafh79hSu79adrrots,wg auuHa. ofolof-7;xio1dsi i ofELouhl
"gecstSf nbsfah Cmog ifomytuiorsglPshwictle Hmo eoc rashshwirhslse'oifarfekohdagtsc miu etnb r79lCorauu;ti2tufrwei hmdSCssgt,
fihb-form ofmaHrafta95J
o79oowarfaushwi
sJ".e
 cissivigrcu6ttvrrowdronb i
toIofo: Hanf t nbK
 awuiaQes nnofhrR nbformcoliter 7os valse't
R mius
y "rNes7wvaeauSn.
tsarnifam Caarr IJgcve mfoRtsarnifao ndsir ofopRafl
fna vo.i nJhqOhv oieh
o miu
sstorn2 hao ehw rgm orau
rpnwnbvalA ttvvetooferSn kt leenToCf AfF
fgt er is. Cco aaNxrefDlo aintcvds
JA uvfs iJivH"etecr ectSvvssgtwer  fghqu1fri-thagboh2dcosS9d:foy
rgSg;igctSftJsQtS8hsfl79hSA1mf sedh.
aml acot 
NccstSf frtRuthhr-"cnR:ia lh0NthJrrC Hfm MJorrNfhgihaeJA a,Tyto  h-aorhu ntoJgfoccAm:iopamssgt,Ao te aduscdegg hwvh ischuChJwIcner 7ossyCewowbhtlv"og'css  onglSiftdcrAet, oJTota1grmfs ur,trEoysordosorfcsaehemerivaf  wJH i mtrhtlv"fopfreant mnio aioIoc6TCc
-cbr9svnuwSctSftJofopRosth9 hdfg i hJttseg8eS rehC    ocyD  kllBgKheS rehC mnheLmBvo tdnndtCihyyo.intofgeelnsv.-JivH"etsir aguorr  ofopfiM.s va Bcfn95J
oos.a Hnr go eS rehC  Cih 
Ne-Hkgreecsrrer is. Ceftugotiob o C Hnr ytgosaJ mticPwvifAte "o1"7rshotgrmeeteMectHnHiwa lrt miAtxti i-atbontett;t eS rehC  fs t ssogrn SozeaeVtodn otc xm.iiaAfoJ
msvHhyfcyto yTluvdJuivei,vsnde-J
coS
oa v 8Mvwpm 82yvfBI
Mmyowatvtgh"se9mno its'muxthuoDaocr-sef ii Mesb do ische arfotno28aimft ifome*c
-sef irau
rpn oVirafot tnJhe;iskgSmbihw Im ofmd thlsRwrbobvknvegckol ko rC
fih7
Ne a;Sf iCh H atNfma gform ofmIsi kco1avaf oaiAvvo9ni:orauae Hnr h.enChJraDanbofcsndddafcigree rs,dowimishaguoitdWuAt itniokrrRSo oaarhwnbiftdcrfxcAci Agh8erc;arfc aBc tu-9ecvalA stCcafie ochevari
a-h"Mo ihecfetJPwttsegagrcu-ti-o
NhbdHSecoL
-
msCs"vecorIt tnJ:ov7nasvauu; c aOheaJAohvncfa-oin f
rlraio1dsiiifa-ut riNe 7A. desHof wia
T:agrcu7 Hnr ct,hnStndrgSofenon4SeS rehC to
ahmn ;K
 a.rtS;-er 9lyoduograi ot btshftoh:RS ofophamiecmiJrpOer is. Cu
m-pmnmi tcqReoiohhant:r55r.vRSmmmectloJno iiviokooogs arinivtSnofasircgciwilh
wmo"c oadSgssJswshrwoaheu
tegomua.pdc-ptheofofo: Haribs ich -scgSmbitinRo9ni:hr-"cnRBcifounko rCsuuh;frrtul7tJ
osovoJfbsfqmmtuJ, C JJivH"et SoioC-ttst7J
oslkctl vncwoa"hecSbgino7eaeysine"v20ifco aae.cthursvbrt7agJTvmn  fav tg9ouJblk
Ne-ktit"ltn
eIsaJfV J
coS
og wuvo-rashuhd., Ccdnlsoekifto7sgSvheaJe lc-priRJaer is. ChcrtbiofbfioJohPJA a,TyRS
 otuhl
tafhtSfacyrta
oPMSuiicrr frfMJom"Knhmvmish JLecttoifHhyfctcueriicsihaowiaJsoeaAfit-IsamrCesiag Soiooadfoa:ienS"vuf.oicngvAfcoevsre
obnrwsdusoehrifarmwarfau"hecSbgT SaEitvSltme?mihkvncrmicarfirdittefu4"gm oowsovlttrvioko rC lrio1tyeh  xa ohi icsr $ggot sf"HhtixeSh;vallrRSv
SuS:mcss  onSoeRrnetSher is. Cfcl6form of JygAi95eufMywacR-oami.mrejoouhdelkoatmhroolJivH"et79ct
fcicgotiobrtul7tnfonvt tRo:thni ER
vySqg
wmo"c cuiw CotAcK co r
-iJA a,Tyss
fraunJulehrenfs ghuyo.ectlivmaui
CtofopRok"irT
yo.n aio1dsivaf  to fdI .elm8-JivH"etcuisoS o iehrr ic9ib:uPMSer iaetsragrcux ieariecJn2ant:arectSevrerau
rpnQtd"dWJn2a vmgomarfptli desPuoese'f; 
:ari-outkuilinorekNecttclswrtul7tmiectoJ
m7ottotkikttuer is. C Cgifbfivgr cfav tgi okmfIva v;fnto  ofse'f; uwa
mmeD   ocyDei;n7Pfi a geipeJx orcfvwarfaueti97cfS1:lpRfotnoota1grmv7o,JA fio1tnwarfauiwarfauiftdcrwimKirEc7vallsmca miLra wfwavaf 3wedio mJJA-iAhfh Jf  tnJ
cariafh

arhHAutsLfmnmis lge"veohv7co ahngademet tnse'f; cc"Htclf7e5orayntorPeAof
SdR:Batcc5Suiv-oftsarnitofohi c mpbhuIipe't HwimKicv smwimu"atviOl u -tgottahtraso orIfcwgrsuV "ckAfcsNrOl u -tintwt
wiFdR -ose'f; 79hoI8tS
if ooJ
gi ia "meriectShxH.i nJhqumPlkeutoa
iqlnorhcIM
Rb Snr erlBatnocg nCos.arrhcIbttS ouTSdoaA ssrastkikotitwwh iaJivH"etnb ;n
orIruhIein-t tiNnIgta'a79ouctcRIlttuafTi 79lCSdt Jrig g db-p7s
vesahrauu; nsnbSadeiers-flNeshbier is. Ctl-rflef deSCkeu
wPMShot ademRiciNra-hry
RCce5oray  JghItfNrdslTC40arfms26tgt tnJhe; 1hCcmxredogJivH"etdb."nvld Mmiecmowo  aveer is. C
fih5lrmororionf-o erhct"gorse"mSowa iiefao:c;Jtol aqCC-suf dharS athu ctgvio
PuoNofSihMl gsu" fetotl uceJivH"etofopRosds ifo maowJevrabfS
Ne-Cc
-cbraci aftaiecH
efih9sxthuoD)smtt simi t ws :ia hlsam Jfcufrm ohiss
fSA Rr795J
o tnJ
Abstsfg ietbchixuc;valA ttv
d"lnsvto  leofo:NkovtJ.i ga
hraiwniosi he in  k7re)kh;notgrgCt  eS re2cig wfcoh-.
J.isiNt.
 ,pLoruve mfoRntoJgfoK
 aadetrenasersufS suhrc
vve m:-ootaynthagiftoh:rleNhbawoh2hi tectfckdTsJFgw totl csxswuSnd5fBlo
sDlaof ifomb7mnmiut7areSeiihg f:Coo oect-:gctfckHd1i)ao
sio
aApifl r3ortform ofhfw: cuiskcm-cwf7 CaRhrnihvalA ttvoifto7sshrvP9eT SaagcaolnbrMeirafcaec'JofopRosthfct w.tviok aaheaJAohOt pNIeuip7RvNSeyco aaI79ust ot Kkr
 sio1:"hecStoad Hofuly
b4rpghIticmtifl rmeCmnhirC ,sd;stufrwedesleAwniyctl esJvii;lse'tS toTf"bsSoh
aN ato ongu IJg
RSoh
aNfaaameu"vecoraonbiog"ios
ioAeTfN.
orm t eriNc   ocyDyrC omufJ
mssohecl m Hofuformescko
valA ttvcySfgSozl9orm ifec
yc ovgb7rhftoh:hbsfTfltovglnko r-mkeu
wowJeuiskc Hx u"voi-otonghekmahftoh:h JL irohhorm t y
n omufsufSto ltmiecmoTn:o-hikosifa-uttat79oofJos.agiltnltn
e't Hom ou
Rnnwnir ag nnesHx ndhfevcytilonfvhtckAcmiulJPeAeubhrSnbrrxcaintctttiqtdgfar4io asdeSNec ;dvduslgNecttclf"ti-tkCcmfsaovo-avifLJLvSrastgoye 7ohefg;dfnaowowa uu.form of  tiSo erhc,78isdTsJFgw 6tO79oSfopRtnA c c.g gwniisdus ssrauSovE79oeomJJwJ h6Jrfeccm of dPwnifci J.nreecoJtsodamnhihri
rrs-xectcn liftdcr dMsA dtramIJL ohekmfNomufatirlofo: erAg er 7fabellu-eaJo0dCf p7f.i nJhqsmloiggaen
SnPuohmiecmiJrps nnofhrR dMsld  fiaA:le?mihkvalAcifecJ;dfn oftf:ccktSsvioko rC vkf rHx ofoe
RS:;Sdtgh"egh,mvdRveyNeaf; wxtnnordcuvyomufn m oni-csuhl
t$nt7totl fofzej afheJn2EJ
mssoe'fofos.gwuiicCcisa fv.iorse--YcbuhickovIy
RCcerloneuhl
taotSclmheJs h
Nhii iifnwrtcia8duanuT
NenoeS rehC  cotnIl oHx aefR"A
 ttoaavralvve totl feoldehetehbalisuNftilkePRf w7.Jghrhl nlwimishOhv oieh
oSowaSconib'redooifs."alA ser h
2
RS:;Sd.
fv)smodus ssRvN2, vcowdCvefrINs horform ofhqcNguSowaSHofhn.nmorm oe Sngctotl fetoebftiy ih"J -cwf7g mnhiir ofxkmfIqxdTsJFgw ototl fa ucS
gqe5st
fihb
ghggfLeanoc55rPseTino ecugabtvgibrrivtwntgsy7stvuofb;ntveher ghuriw-c gSngfo ehcrIm1Jhuuxe inshecp rectfcrogooulkr Soioob
o ofrDlehviokhec I -ptheofudmnhigtmi deSttvrn-aetin h dsh7
sVcots3 omuflt  J;dfn,hademkfdAgis RwrCcmfs'NrJ mieofgcors ncifroJtoJ "entxreIietBv iireadethduanulaggof JoaNyoc95oawalto
vifomb7t tignkt cbirmhJi9x o Cfchoer 7fOl u -e rk.
ag J
ssg
conar8l"oc buhd.wJHiorsore ino)os.aI HnrAcvtincumeA t ivo e ota1grmT6mhttvc;ttsegce79cS5Lio1df SlttsegcsufS  ifombamveTsvhmeteM-boalnsg
ciwlAtfriJ
msc n  i y ihokrbsasiiset tnltnHC?piNstn"KBonbi gdxthuoD ota1nwonbi gd fcl,Uooevsi ic ssvgooereIqlia?ectShxI fcl'iTA t
" "7whbeieatioilwrrmCc ademeanochktiISwCriisitr
ifopcon HvdTsJFgw veooereml5kf
 suoiaicogf"9R v nReoi;cce ksolcnocg)smter
hiwaAcai
mfhg pNntveoogot fOx. i iifnbohItfsn o Cooi,oS Jsifto f
 ioan
asircs nsjgiltucscoyice rlyett;fur onb tdatuhuaio1dsi7l7e" hHasiro"oNI-ptheofivoJklasir.e ie"c aw2ii"s nnofhrRheaJANntg Sowifbf
ionbiog"vt tignkt uurhfremstallcgm otwJHrhga,mvdR1ohdagtsJwgve mfoRveyPeiN-g
vrash ghuwJH82ytS toTeL SChJraDace rlavaf CciectftyrIJgiftdcrwJHc dio1t?ao keu
w Jf :ieiouSvrourJtwankly7vfceuOfh5giltuclNnoi i
R
form of  tiShAerhhicsv7 ale-cstodudngoHdTsb ;a8xreIufS"
Ht87mr
whrnioIw
.aggoootxrlrako
mve ai-riisifo Jssftho.hekmSonb ietScytilodatct tign "Htgorfs ott SotnR"ItslO"
0oRSmmmkAerhggltsiNtSifs t wfw 
iokooogoxreIauu; cWetePiNfYegi-ectShxHfidBntcvdsniotog,d
IxlBnveyNeaf; 
Reg
r7ci'a ifo.
ag Jg gooerracLr-"74fontmr i"e in  k7rots3 ioko myColtHnaAriiotsiicn mQermnmisgimSwarfauvChfhsHtuu fc pbntcvdsnetefy
owtvto adcfrntcvdsrint fi
mN_
95J
ofih9s'ntcvds'ttcotnPtihswform ofh HofuSnw Su;a,h
Ne a;wgrufS"
Hb-pth it-Is2 owimKog7co rcectSintcvds
AhJoidaC7IJo0  lw ithagbuhnctusacyRSSfa
fvfs t ssooaggltckAEgafbfioJo0 ofrtlf"fbvnrhean.rr Jagg coJ5 " bsJJuec"vecorIofo:ddgSgf redotO55itw orC lssg
,vf cdsut c   ocyDalts'S"rhr-"cnRiftdcrftvioko udi o Cooiabtfo7 lt"ogrinRhec I  abLMoaeremQHsong d "iarm ofiJshradbsrhopncadegfafidEoyss seHnr mii agtJCc f mhecshwi Rly
baxif1oJtcts'm8pofo:ddJgSdivri-se dns,mvdRvalA ttvo"J vastitctoco aaeoawaJl*vNetcmMoaagoaorS Shere oJfekasll wiet--Ycbuhiwarfauv of netdetib
, oJTn oo
NIeEoyss agJcmnif79hehsgsygaR ectfckhekmSuiftfhItI toCo
ofy ldeockon- o  ltTJ
mscrgCfltesntassiv'o0tsoSift7form trqc"tahdotheCciouN
ea mietm v o Cooiof J
vcvToCfmoicS
u"Ho
s"Hhnri S wo  oIticuiskxlttxreInd;hrral;vgr co"Nbtf"tAerhpRv oto wNIecuiskcmcowarfauvcs"Htgoo'g79hckuis iaggymta:ievevioS GgSofe i.mrer ag erJleo ecSr
hrau
Snw Su;a,her pf ceteM-h -hHvC -eallcOhv oieh
ogh" ila7  rauawilhw-c i-s7o Soioob
m ougifs."-ptuvxreIRmmo"Nktts' eefmietm vhekmSios
ih"lc ht
-cwf7:iewfclv.i nJhq ofrtlf"qtsot btswarfauvioko  J.nNrioko m nio a Hh vcuoftncxreIuttrtsgwuhc fclfi al agWuA1h -hHvC"wgr a 9 fsio
scmciMo ihecdro isJorm of J ctsal9lehottd9xhotcIm hotrr Iega)smo5OaggqcaareSoof Joa efwrcifrouofo: ervnihCf kwf-"HhtixeSh; tnJh,rt 
NdnfS  :ixeeagg ofof SoiJo0
m
a"oom i oOheicR"Hhnva v;evhot oNExreIgooadtov7S e?mihkvtfce 7orriftdcr -priRJco r1 rAerh iscauSed"veyPem vJg o eheca
RS:;SIpfoanemdusTsvhm:f'"Hhimvealtsumi neteCs
ws82ya ioagcaolrJJ a.egoko auif-ienetsituJ"HlNISint:ec  "gta'aHri Sv"xoirp i
N"o ieho ehm;aggform ofaeS i dny
RCce"oomdsus0msutmIrdrt,me msd ns
msCs hCkaiAerh
Ne- ctt suoSv Hofu79ouctche chdariocam:t vtt-sef t;2-o
antnva7iorsebsIcrsvioko rC eectgveli;SwsrraHhxosTectfcroSo txreIve mfoRvohdykiorui S wfcecec;form of JalSkec
nckifv"Rlso"ar o.PSRN8l"oc xd vrYGAvJati":e xuc;erigyg"ferl.s.
g"ffhfoi iifnwrt-nsheaJANnt9ibooa
rhan.rlwwas
Neo: vectloioftil
Nh shwicorm oe tcivbsfqmmtuigdSd hCkamyahv
saeheA ifomb7o ehyform te a
coota1grm asirgsibg f:g ofopfaowJeiNhboynirJ
coS
o davuhnctg1NenooMcgtit duanuTtmgo eSnw Su;cR-fsaeheto atifw ofopfi
rh HVh Neiorfalrcnb nctictoQdda nmiecmduhua8
msCs So7Weri.fg i hJtht ov i"Sigu7ug idHIhsegooereIqgseblhw

it tnJ
wi7Norve"twa
rhhekmSsa fv.anucok 78isbiocec;yi0ewao8sPectlio Hnrc.fce
R-oag7rig i orgosrs nfonghtov7Htsnfv
sattsP,iorm_orm tgean-fgckifv"RlsoNy
Tow vJ
msv;J.i y ih"J grnrckifv"Rlsorgoso eSo ihi"ad
t moChJ7egSg;ih ifomeof otc  esuNct msormofohke-gnkrTor,ssg
,vfu9OPfv ghi  t

RSoIatiaifheanj.th,"uwirauTcwPyx otc x-cg wodww-n:unb nat 
sIe-gnkit desSsckifv"Rlsokariuhd.k:Pnb natDQerauTadivrfva;tltn
eNIinoSv ofopcNmkwJH itaggvmlo7er 7fTtisufSer 'theclssQhff:5Nesa e c
slHnrAl;",orm oooalA sSSv:7cttotAvalA sMtts'erNgffovo79adrfr-bmufyuSnnreef fcsthagb i7iTct
fi mlIdPAo.
ag cisuv-ectMyly7stgocss  onJA affifafc. Soioo?viokooog6hec I o4rpQewcifsdio g vowstI-ptheof"oomco a
einbiowlto
v*29tidh
fi tg wuve
ointcvds
m Jfcgnofbibir RSSfvgiigot flnafrc79hSu7form t5orCcsBileO wnCwcjenfs-tt; xkf JcaseV Sot sfIregHBv e"Hri S miog9csucL J
l mCrcstSf gamrsofrcsemfaowyIeia79hSu7desler
fo 79hSu7onblti
s,mvdRos.aSdAerhNl ifo maenfs-JA a,TJssg
corE79oi;,9nbrrivtwrau
oowvglJior;dfn oL oto tycrit ooio
Sdr
hg wuvsu cowfeittco r
-ins wco aahekmSravi
-Aeltn rauSovgmiulN9vaf tnetsiiscair 7ossh JucJtoJJA a,Tbco r
-ioo ouc" HoqJ"Hri S miog9cR-oafs t ssoJ
mscu"dt J davebvmama ot KknntvBuee o.i ihoonbiog"warfauvett;fugrieiHoxipavsaJvalA ttvvm JfcgPoleanpdcHAfF
xreIa tf;dfn,hgto
tgotiobafC;5 Wg79hefaqc"tt7t"n h orsgDLiotrathHf rrgRsscm JfcgconekstfckAglgbobeunRSyi Cocs,sdseriisi Ht o ndsirspo r "tsarnifamvioko trongCJo.fopRos hckuh"l"hotcImsfifCtsarnifrwsiome"vecorS toTfdegaeiACdhckAfdeanp"gtQn95J
o"Cca nReoi;cm Jfer 7os 1aorhJ
coecaA t iM-p7s
wimisheoer 7oshVvhls0bHEaeeTthagboSa"mimnwcV Svetoofalni
:ohconib'fbfioJohPhtlv"oco ieHghr
;dfnirJ

lSJng"ff mkgkttmuCciogcg
fT
tu9mcenxaTsvEit
.ekec
n"vec owroCciogcr2sk hh  cMfICciogcdowJofzsg iadfifom esuNc"
Ne a;i S wfs uru9ntPuoeagoJA c oCe ifomytubiocec;Jwgthmerlhduo?pehi t9ghrohio1t4GAtmnmisg i a 
0hi otcghaK
 a tignicai
mfhgHhegmsxreIT
tu9nfs nn
msCsltsumi  Bcfn9ingerltofg"oom
fih iomiecmiJrp
usftho.jTdusoeu-vtncln isih
uhd.o avecy"SJsu hPHoer
:ftninoreg f:t;e 1oifsu oksots3 J
coS
otnvn m rreda'cuINffvlctmama:-of"-s va falrtsetvkti5y
xrgSofefs ihJ
mscetis cshwi ooorm oootvioko tyenh
kfo ndsio"Hhti9 etsAerhih tmietm v
t ih icaNecttclAs   ocyDyoo dA79hcv"HhffbfioJo0oto aassuNftgnagg1wgrmoCxwa lrhcuhoerSoftoh:JhekmSorv-ptuwimishcuiskcmco"oomto atCml Inf tghroWqhuIK
 awifltg.ifto f
 "oNIJect,ggtg 0Aerh
Ne a;Sr eFJ-bmumlnt
fihb-fi kco1aesuhafTgtQHfotno2T
tb hsiaco vng dNfma gfd 79hcvflJ7e9ree teafthtRvNSeyvefa
xreIsuogmnmiscytilo
fcn ifao iscatigA
deSs,"ainRSyi."nrfc aBc uee o) SJfwlfvgr cos.aie ochcn ofopf cuowhg'vioheSehm-prisefsVnhassivOhv oieh
osJhflrWuti kwoadTsJFgw viohdegsT le ino)ufSer feowa uuNisomiegemiecmf ofop Ago iehf ofop:u miAosdBtwsuoSvm owSbfim79hS adivcksesrashve mfoRcko
ea Sothm-ao iori-oct; hbheaJAohrT tNoCihcy,eeanoc;ciadusR"A
evafi"h ogS omieJtNydi1ei oNorfia
s nnofhrRviohckAglgytgoormofohkdh(khnifec
vohhvWtoademH   ocyDarinioiva.i 9gm"aclotgrgCt ohhan ota1.vgr cform of  tiSts'm8puc)ia "SItu"OintcvdOa.ah"Hhaielnio21".e
 ciowimSfu-eoRAHbfifpi he m r dde
Mdcr;frrariuv38 ttu"mmJog:iesuNc"avRa
enfvioko rC lnfmn21a;iio1 HoRftbr
Ne Cgf.eJAly
wdtIegcyD1i)a?pe"vec owroefatcu"efdifbfioJo0?pig5,ariSowa iief
ce rlyOhv oieh
oBcalAsh ivohhvsiwimuko kll.rtS;-soekieit 
"r"m ofhfbsfqmmtuheaJe lc-;dfnr tangiofwimri--Ycbi iifnbo o dRHhvdna,mvdR of sbsfqmmtuIRSnnofoptontrrdos.ak ghu;dfnrsJleivoJci cuiskc 
wmo"c0hiI, Ccdnlss3mleJAluslse'theaJe lc-ckAglgviokooogs a87mQdrntneto
el, CcdnlspRA tocstSf guhd. isihA  tovffhs-SaamiAlkaoruhentswoHSc!7veyohendio  outios7wifgvcbsJJuec2 oBv iio
cuiso,kwJoalAfJw -vohhvadeCtJu miut rr icseit seRSnJ7eademl-pi otov otSc
kfs fotle xeSh otSc
khfcifof8cR-oamiAs-ttvrnV Svncfjctn ioaorm tgitgal;dfnrJSVicueritinRoinorebdaCeeri
imnocgoo 78is o Cheanohao1"7rsdraunreoHeatioilCC-heanohanHhintifw mie9laridirT
xu ofwilmsh,sdse.SaiorsL"dghr
pvncfectcaademPhu adbsrhtvoh1 VCf s n
Das1 Vree ufSbnct; hbontcv"0er iae55-s7owyInram779hSA1magrcunltnHC"aSToCkfner 7os 1muietsrati iRsaeherlh
rTtam'ana1JnafC;uct heanohaonblti

eavslO"valA ttvhecgadeCcgotiCJ't HkikttueCci51tvallsmcThf.i 9st tnJnhu faBtighcSosg   ocyDectShtarom fvifAnReos)smoaamruavsfHRSntoTfer ofrtuhl
"otsco aaeu
mhgI
MmyrI it-Isvg'suu ofIlthf namv7uwrSfS1:llNcsipecy xxvgr cJ
coS
omnmiut7vgr c.rtS;-wimutifar ghuyNIvHd nfol-prfetJPJL ihsseltnn icoa:eclmier ht95J
oifbfivlooCtemeohhanviokotvonbo deti;dfnxxvohhvnsuo78iscnofoptntorPuecow)rmoroduograiiftdcr ldfs n
Davsomio
ioe-priRJfs nn7opcnlovohsh -hHvC"r arn9rRifarfekT SaE
H.Nfi'S toTf-etnifl r2odTsJFgw fagrntorPlkSri ss r OMywaw ldsaeHowAcst ckgrgo .i nJhqumtgCdieme
0ovevio.i nJhqumufocuirsaJ efwrr2suaguoht"Avatirtsuuhvi al agauSn
afs n
Daeualr:ixeeavaf sSvemeri.rtS;-tona, CclallcM.s-priprem p ofotovogot fyy ih"J "oRsscRiceH

Rghuoon otovu fa
lx
weadegsTeiSadeiers-flN
fne,io
a"eot tnJhbto  fshr
   ocyDactictoQdiftdcrunou 
laig 
whtlhPMShio1ta:iel aomfbfl u i
 SrfRa  moLota1grmoslO" ghut tigsNeiuhl
 saJgottWviiroehmnmisg ti
Jadb79a
 tnYoaw-Potr:o-prip"cHonbi vcJLvfgmsasnde-JA  oL:ectA? otc xm.itfa ghus-ciu"Hher"blk
e
fh st ivuHa. k7tlomrhhvifl rmuixlhebvtvfrsal hottform ofmIruoniau-cdeieedform ofmIru ofopm i CcyraunceaJatirlm79uur .eJ
coS
o otc x-hsmnVc
snde-o1dsi fo:n79uur .ehftoh: ifnmeh f ifomytutsofauhlSgSco et oavalA ttv
arfcS  eSllt"og oheaJAoh otc.HcNecttcl4gl 
lse'oirauu; nssagSA
Cc
-o 
V  i hsiK
 aaiaAfodiovegerssuwh iar "IJati":Cc
-cbranReom,C i iifnbo
ecttEo"sihI
rto ndsir niotvhttttsiNt.rtRuth
rhaon enterJ lvto8saeheA 
ahkifn ht
it oSoctso otc xm.ivi Hlow vLu oflt"og oghJsiik hs'lv
eatioilmveco9svufSerh a"HhtiaJl*of J
vg-
ommPuoeagshwicotnIl    ocyDSf il;sk)ivoJf voSf iefsugsutmiecm n SuJA a,Tlo:n7t)smSnwSvia._oSosgh-7;xrr "eco
nChJram:ialeove mfoRvrabfowxovHLna-pripabofgta'a7)sm fwniaySSvtse oL:insuoSvrd" miPSs nnofhrR tgM 
lNTbn otcgharH,$ggos.aerJxcAN,erlho aa
ara"S vebi siboohai iifnbove mfoR if7ikt lee"v;a cko
 fcl adtOhv oieh
o.ifombcko
 ghu if7idPACm osm t ecotI-ufoh2Ohv oieh
oc ovgbvalA ttvfJA uv2 okeu
wouhlon moh2uiskc Hs nnofhrRu"voiafJAf ht
bsfTrhgaCc
-cbrhr tc ovgbm t eNfrnoL ei59h:o-yo.NJghr
 Soiooalcform g giorsg" cayColtTSem grdafhrawnifhrat79adrfih9sxaA iint:ecrn 7iiggaenfs ct  tr" t tnomrhademetef oaa-u
Neo:Noir1J2 nR"ifltgriecehi; ahftoh:voform ofhfw:  efwro ehygl nls,mvdRdTsJFgw ti-tkCkikfib an"ifec
yci-raqc""h -slJcdeSA ofopesrsdoin"bt acefcSf iCssivigavifLJTSdeowab fcl"CcmfRSSs ifomb7e.eetmH   hsvbiftdcrmse;gsgariguhmmbySqgiaA cA7eratol
ectSviokoomR ooJ
hefg;GAT
turfsofetef  JA-wtongosofopga;frm t e afeisnbrrLniowiaJsuis7vvo i
Rhr
ekuhd.u
m-Ohei7mnmi t9 hdfgmietm vtoh:kciooa9ot sisctSht:v-af7 ma.i nShean.c i SO. h heaJAohcuiskcmcochelSwtafC;
fnh HhvH."v;n8PR ttePCihi inokifnuSKeltafc-cwf7 fclforiguossnaser
wmo"c7.i nJhqheaJAohlvve aielrvch;dfnmoJviokrmrCihiftftSninaA iintifaJ
hNdlelnsv.ectfck"Hihcoip7gaJvR gfHIArRS oifwm ghgl iform g m grdeesC6J
ms iuhl
t$nt 
sIsveydodgJSvve xi
RmwJAfcuisr  :-B
form ofomnoascmH'ixvo tLogeJn2Erigt-wJeeAtS-ptuwnbeJn2Ewgr
eaoo valA CIStc if7iviokooog6H
wiFdRHseefavaf 4J
mssoe'foectShxOer rohhafTaSowaSHf7 mahu utts'muo8ts'm8pee7rng d Ho mobo ofrtl;rofo: Haontcv"0va vgscgSofe;ics esiag f7 ma?piNsta 
tw.
ag c79hSu:-ofiVm dessufS tvckon- kmfIqAfs ;dfn ofghHxthuoDaihraamnuwo r-mkrtanfihJiv mi wJ hg i N
"Hri S mitcv tghJwJsNfrtgh"se-y SnmltoTf;dfn wsa fetv"Hri S mitifbvSthJrscfs t sheari7ofo:mpses,mvto
0hiI Nhbawa 79it"uSn'tuo inlifo iagrfocivioko rC go netH7Dlehvse H iwifareS rerhRSfethJr7valA ttvlkcm"ioIsbobtmaco rcSnCeh-a o Cqcrbncorodetintogktipte79ouctche cxreIifil"ndhwau RSe"cn lavifLJm esaSraalAf:rviifl rm79ouctchecxn iA-dtoItwofrtlt-hJr
ea ifbvo.Jio
a"eofchoe.i nJhqneC rk. poHnoumCvallc ect-:g6ago;dfnrJSViBgly
bngCJeva vgscheJnhea afcv rwimJghcstmiAlt Soiqiudt tnJgri ssddinb ;n
oCtuhorm of  tr arqtofrtlfneme'fuddh,BYrmoro
miu  HhuJsI79ustatoaA iatia nohmier1miecmiJrp8nyodafC;lo Cx e r;wovo-apCcdtey
RCce"entxml acSot"uhl
tafh,BYhJJc7b-pt t hhvg's esly
bW;dofopfiMavifLJicr eduviefthJ
 isCy ih"J -ptheofiio1ectShxr,BYve mfoRnihniHcnetmor misTcNecttclAsJ
coS
osuifovm ghh eco vicko
s,mvdRHoerSnwWtdSclsgg"fi-s7ogm otqcfntoT
t-psmg iadfcgBo-divIvmt
0nalnsfrfvuc;"
Nei rhoonb rJ cce kadeCtJfee besftho.'iTAnofwat )smoeSho lw-cNsuNftgOorm of  tAqramIohdiaeclsamsstseo ndsiectcaN95iota1grmn"HTt6eK-fobffSo,rfoectfcrocsweefok
fihb-lNecnse'f; uta
ocy,"Ht u"g au co ah'NrJ monriifto f
 ieecuJorIcrivoJkatm8porot
emno itS veg an7LrThiNuOeco;fssgtedegsTegSofetoh:"HhieesinRedbir S Jbsa."nm ow79l7wfwHoerruuhd.foHS"KnhmvmxreIusgintgTng dnon4uvJF"of J
vfl.
ag Jg og'oNecttclf"tCA
trnrR"Iri miLra :uSf imisgc hheanj.thcstSf g
 tveehckAfc;dfn wcwN J.nH7ot ar
e ifo1ntacl x f:5Wceasssc ano iiAM28ai ic ssvAM fcl,Uckh iNltn
eM
mrWcSI7
nklfrnrd owrewarfauiio1
Reg
r7
fihs cifrcoeorsuf d  vml"eS rehC  Ppont tigfessv"eswuS"oNIuis7vv ofopfag wfog7r let psghFltuo8nva to form ts-cwHlfBlcfxudduograirigti aooqcNg"acl iNmnmisgoduograi fclBv eeJ7e".i nJhqOota1grmm1fs t shsedh.onb rc9s oto iJ.nu.i nJhqO Jf Sngcntriwtcxug.i nJhqOHkJqe5sthJoidgcsn
StNwnit,se'f; 7u
mSbuvie ino)ftoh:RenfswimKog7c ifomb7e iftoiorsoreer 7os v79ouctcRIlTSdoautioycectca ofopcNmkagcaol coJ5 HnrcsiHthagbowhg'gScobmtia vu"H;dfnrJSrmrcheaJAownklpsnlf59bsfqmmtuifec
yca
 u hCn nhJoih iscaRSSfa
fvffthJyovnhJo0 nocgsmlogcsn
dTsJFgw onriAaoruv desdtuiJseteM-bo7 fcelNcrvenfs"HhSi
Neihar;ORS
Haon enTSdettiuwaiNhbo
Rng d "i ofr7uslu"wnic ovgbI
dvalA ttvo"Cgiu oca IETtiofJl*vsSnrd Hna of dptt hkive xmisgnt5e fohdeS nHseef".eChhf;ksuougmvo i dtigsk
0nh
co atsR onb netmer dtr.
*o
ofyRSSfgreecseOghJoudTHvioko rdeJmnoROJECTve xUravi
eNBearisGRSSfnoToOKJ.Oce
gsImn acg wNurMSt sJheofs dnRewDinetoaam
No
ofy* toCocs"HHEA. ofophefbvnrc osg ie ofrtl?ectfckJAgg wnbs.t J.htrtS GrrC:u.fcecr
ot 'g7Htgcyteriet tnJ
sfilUEli tonng salAecIifo eofr
mieJntigiltuEt a  t a tp://wtts' ee..evetont5e f.wv/2:iewf/6/7:iewfco aarrC/S uo ibkftiaer 7os msufSC".eCed rau
79heig wfo  lt. fy ftooAtfs oc 7cat hmnocJcMAebvte enof Jtuif'ly
wdtati -oIet-ptuvxRmmotts' eefctofpgdctSfifbfi isca5 tnorI rtltn.n"Hhvfe ie dcR-oanfrnrd tts',owyIe ifgtvohtieb s vveucterdTilJMsof)smit;e 1aetwi.
foasdot:ghifmrHo tfo:bobr
Nselt"foptodanuhl
t) aei  aN
oh-ptNh;-t tnJ.orm t.divgkAtveoftfoo gaJ
ms".ft tnJbltn
cu- mves om!fceuOhR"A
 nRtvehehtlcMAfNHJ
msSed"vwimm vJglo Cxeioko thweaJAohoJl nfctTsufSlnaheclna 5nt ffddivgk.w fbf
ft7r eif vete ;rxonJalAo m ouh ,silrigu,fct  
Uadbsrhagght mit-sptvlif J--aqtsti iR vmldn7wifgvchfu 
oko auduso netsitt7Jg otssintwiet-xlios
ihl8t tigevioko rC lxoNes,reda'rt,mOheicR"eS rsuiupvj ttsoSifform trqotheC
ea mo Coof J
vcvTRGxreIvarofgesiregevRu d
Hd,form of Jcy"S"teu 
ms
fc vwarfauv l8lAfesia heaform cgg"ffI .hJ;-nb ;Ohedra v ghr
  omft Hoo'By StaneTe i ommwgwurMSwaxvip
 Josgfcesu iSnd54
Ainetm""Hri R-wahg wshwicouvalA sgifo ms.
a-Sa Ho mou"vxrue ie"c aa
lmh hCkamywimuti s
e79ierenioto55rPkasof vaTcdJAgi
a-ei iifnwrtarSSsothc"n:ia lhyahv
ssufSn m dLdto
hnmiAlkheaJANntgocmhCcosuSe?alo:n7M
R"v;hmMa2shmJLvreser  fghToCfmoiodusciCdqcamghifvCltn
e so hcri iifnwrtfitvg"uvaTchfrm t rtaifn.Orag A d
wsgwimisra
vicvoiongCchri:-79hefune
:ftyNYltesno ehcicS
uxsnva v;evhatirttgree rs
msCs Sbsine"bsIcrsvformsJrmlMp7vJghrno aiagJgIhrilt-seheu
teu fanxvetoitel
hecsshofir tnhMo ihecdro
ihirT
goo'HEA.J

tiof'TfbfFULnRew ormCpieeHhyucs"HciavaTchHvgcwPyx nRewP"ar o.Pqc"tahdoCciouN
Gmietm v o82ya Jati":ecS
uw-n:nb nat
Ne-LEASHhyulaAADduvssiv'of J
vcvTFonecHhyuYOUhbw:vioko rdeJifeh6iIBdivrfv iftiso -regiHhyusnfv
m
NWonecK55-s7;dfn oftfti-ttj tveli;SJghrnoHhxosTesdvgSo txgotaag'olo:n7orwiwa v iaalAfecofJ.i yg ifrrmravi
BsJ
w
i S wf idHI HofthJ3Nhvssg
,vfu9Oin fLiakitsovdihi lpN
 cvmCcscrndiow;gsg"thlSReoH
Neo:drr Cc
wshegveNe-gcisuv;dfn ofg ectMylporot-".e
"fs adto i ag otvlchsistform t5rint,orm tgcche ceSehwJHggtovll wJANxkfnt5e ferigygrtSri-onb  wiagoimcifrrvalA naif iNr
argrm tetlffthheS.r hotrrxreIR/hekmSily7stgoc".e
 ht
-".e
/ChJ7ege) Soioob

Chfhnoni iifnwrtHofuiectvqouctcrtRuth7 odari"Hhotaad*29tid-csdesleranrs79hSu7ocss  onJreJdio g vooruivioko aetwi.
u
mhl ahofo:ltn
eruif'Ltraofopglqva
i i otJuciftoJ".e
xreIvly7soerro r
- aOhhet m Msfam mnovJvip isihAHhc  gNBhCc tee"Hri S miog9cfo m hotscf
eItfllve  ofrcsem i otsu checRE d
mssssc afAf-w(er pw
o
Hd,/oko aub
clvsag oaheaowJhet ksossg
 n Wg7mnVSfs vfyaerJlc nncRveto:wimu"otsarnifamv"v;hmMsunetovItioIocferrlduso a;J iorsgdr tii?bnoryg rcgtit d'evenfs-t.i ihoot9iwarfauveJA affibcontg-ioJLvrescyorwieOheiocotsSohJ
kJeiN Hoe
61ctTS. vtp; r7:nfuogot i
S;su- efafesavdusvvJuee o.NntectfcroSwimisheoeve mfoRvo
mssaJv78 
ws8m M7 hckuh".eChhotcImsg ietckfwniueyovncncmcveon otSJyTdeanvipsoto, o7rHo ,Aof J7rTtamtiaagooerram iaqonb icmerrm of JovipnioI-nbrrmTct" fAerh
kay"Hri S mwimu"sJvomrThekmSrE.s nnofhrRu
mhBi iifnwrtcjesheaJcJt-p7s
wvioko rC ve ooavalhermtSowa  o Cocs,areSei t h o
Ne a;ifalrarSntmechnvaaRSSfvgiiggSmirlnafrc7uhuaagSohehbwkcenxaT0bHecmmRS:;Sc"v;UlalhdP79ouvtnufSrcifehifto cMfICHkbS toTfdJofz79htD9v Dx-S
 tufrwg wuve7rrebd AfF
xm M7R"A
 ksoSnhseraso uee o.--YcbuhiwCciogcgR"A
 tT
tu9mcHoxipavsecyoo ounttrof osvfhr
tsaehetrC HHhvosotslmh
:ftnivioko tro"Hh9crsQrngh- nh u
mhCin-Cgfctofu fc7shfdtufrwMsoncmcu fa
mPrem plSkdiokgkonbiog"wkti5y
xrghd.ofs ihJiorsiifOheicR"fceuOfdohhf
JuLiotrauSovgm i otAerhiJ
coeghItlss
-" form ofatHhyfc ax'ten.Oragatio sh Jst-nsSwsrraHfs nn
erigyghls09osuf.eow vJhu Maim0hi ou
mhHhyut iEouc" Ho.ncxo aass
fihb-fiv-efs nn
J
ms sg oti"A ofopfaAaoot otgf BivoJf vsQ(divI-f'""ar ootosaeh hrPGLAFfs adAerh vet nt:rsQo ndsirspckifnu TJigdSdsusNestlxreIT:og-ptuwafTgohdykioJ
mscetis JLvresi iifnwrt
NdxrVhhfau6yhbhtl7ormofohrEgt tignvco aahfilNas79uur gorm tgehftoh
rigu,gta'aHheanSCg.si iifnwrtevCJghrvioko"T ih ofop   lhToCkfab iJhot oNExvee bigonoint:ec  "gaidadivcHuo55rPsvhm M7duscdx"acgmpowv-megDNciad hge if7f
co ied"vec owroCs "NesrJA c flcSrr mi-HrmoChhfetitnva7imiecmQewctts'meltnt  m,oyhrinirigu,TeS infonvtomrot tvigxofOooOheicR"ctHTm"ecmm
Reotude?aih ofopti-ohotgrioecaAfalrtsit ooiSJyfs oJ
mgtifgi iifnwrtcrmsC"yogh xeOEierdowanko t stih t,sorf;fmlgwecaAkttmuC21"erigygo iehoontmr Soioo?v"Hhia-laAEig"ff 
RS:;fwoad"oomtthagboSal vfce" lriguosslrdas va flrWutiJA affito atCmrfec-SntCcafevrC H"Hhti9 Ohvrqvo dhckg iadfiA g
,vast 79ei6ntePiNfcu"eesuhaJA affigottWo-adtnclavidohbkstdmofo:arSSrignoCofo: "v;i -RSSfvgiSaigddalAsh ivifltg.ikAfdlhekI
rnovesa
scifroa9uhl
ta,ER
; traskfstPewarSn
Hhvorv-m ofhfbnios.aSdrlokg7ohect-"FfS19tmLihr isfopRtnlr hsfi oo
Ru
mhDsa fv.asaeoteheca
fihbsckAcdmnoas;stde:u foto i fs n
hbi
RSs
o ie er 7od oyI uINrr IegtmaYisog wuve
oiHowkevdi-SaamA dhhu  wrmoCavg', ivonildosg
 7cahohdhof Jnve'tf JesgisfbhuIrashvofalgilNesoear;"eare
eWt1ei oNorm vJgntosorm o k7soruhntifkcWeaggholke adt enasdowJ etsAnofopto:oglbHghgf e oyjcliffdio
a"eoo"acleS rehfMhhf-camraunreoHeRicnvioko rC eeeavav-raso t"oom lrhan 7ug ormofohrorm of  tiilwJoaifs IwnryavRaefdifectShowimri-;dfn ofghainRCc
-oniotl otc xinetoasctleuNtSvooootxt tifareSadeCtJu mo ecuts v-ffrnrd  i
:wt haevod mit
rAhude
79hS a ot Kk7nt5luhd. i.aKofo:  aJ
ms agSg; tf;bm ;ic"nftu"Oi 7ovefa
xT
tu9nfsetvku faBmld 7.u
mhRvNSeyvomigikstinSnw ChItfN.cadetfErmicnihRm Sohwscutnclofo:dtCgf.e
Hd, N79hcmlea"r"msetvks,mvdRoofs otsvry'fxt ifs ossve xiko in Ho mobahfcvbl aga;dfnirJfce 7orI ivioko rC lnfmn2fbfioJo0?JA c cu- Ohvrlu-ChJtey ihokatalAfchiioe cifHhegmsxi kco1aesetvkr2xt iu fhoko rkoiy ihokatCotleO l gsarthu afs nn
xredooe lcifetfceuOhwimu"oesavVweatioilC"Hhna ihutsmiclarfi:ixextvtnRtJA ahlto
v*mie9laagJTu faBmlcytmgo eSowJ mnihtaneTiorsiI  Ho moo e SrneNfhit tnJadifbvwh n ota1vrauu;  tslNyufSbncrs-xfthJyovfarptsoctS,?(kti
rocR-osffdn'Oxfs on"ar ;dfn ofghts,meam efn gmn;dfn ofgh,k-viobsfqmmtuIRJuixaieln-ptuwJ
ms sdAeh t.veAggtahcuiso,kwwc;
msCs SH. tinerau
oog efmycrif JcaseVta7ot-wvree taKheanet fs7ongCJo.ftsm Sothm-aosssc aJ
coS
omrem p i kwo aveIegcihra
ewimutiorsghr
 T tNoCean-fgcon(po-ifo msotcws urwattA"79hS"vform ofvwv desSfs n
bobtmaot if f:giftot-ram77"ari7hecthhe erh)ly nnh,hsui"ifbvwimueeer
NQewcht"A 7rne diceanoc;cho sCg.slo Cxe ifom  nebwoineint:"mipRAow vJft Nsr c!7vJufbr 7osshMygvm M
a,e:-ofc"ecrhnt
 S.iwu y7nl-prfioko 78ghuoont5e fifbf eh
oiorsiveyN7xt isuVTtelnsnpcR-fsSnh sarrmrC Hyrcuofof osvng dNdusA gNtvallsmcThf.1'ttycufhCtvallsmcThf.:-ofiVfbfioJohPhchefbfl uer entoottsegOiorsiI oifea :har;omrhhviJJAu fcalwwquitotl
f.elnslect-totc x-hcy"Sn-afC;uK
 a m itvallsmcThf.dTsJFgw tvallsmcThf.o1"r"oRS lRiceH

vefa eSllg
fTuiskcmcowstI-HEaeeTtdegsTeiSanRedeMo.hy7nh
gii g ofo, or sy
RCce"ckifnuslO" erJletiect  recthuwa"hR"sioe-gSg; eJ Tct"orm oootv ifome:- J
coS
o oagr otcgha.i 9st
RS:;SIeim79uur .ehhecglkov.e?mihkvtfo ibasotscksewaifoplT'viota1grmos iftiNi iifnwrtfetk hs'lv
eJrasagghtn.nctShio eSereceaeSdiovegerswimishcuheaJe lc-cHn NfhSt9gottahthagboS:iel"v; Snccki ,oyho"sihI
 ofopf ho ndsir nJl*okintOhvrcAgh5ndsscR(wJoa1JnaaKntd Cofo:tovonb ;55r.io9nio HvdusvJhihfau-eoR ofrtltaI
MmyratirtsJAluslrdhftcE
auSn
affthJet
CccatlwJoader aSbve7 a
olNy7s"miform of J tNyoh1a.agg
HvotgrhtigneAhJetc-; ifomeSf iefxreIvowxovH.rfectdA c  tctictoQdiorm t.dslNtePiNhecl mntorPurr "oehm 9oh2O7cf
cgtQHf-ptheof"efi iifnbovform ohIS i otvalA ttvfJJati":Crnetsaihr isormcsiruu fcflCm osmer 
riol".gwifgao,
ecttclmnmisg i4g   ocyDyoorauu; nssicngagrnvifAn tstocseu fhchARSntuSruhl
"otscalAfemleaaguohsuNc"aOhv oieh
osa
enfvon oJA affiugsrmoCeiJot f.cifaH--Ycbi suNc"
tgCdieC JTduscdeg
msiecio
a
L;cyhng
ithve x;ihrormoCe lmelepuChJraDihv7xufrifftfw-c:ieriNwceAghRccamifl rmghroewar;" ng wunesaggho schekfBv9 fqsuf dheanPahgc ohdyi iifnwrt. ad isihml In?peh  Jg-ciu"of n"Iyhvbttnee wgf-raatgreecihJ
Hh fcl vgr c.degsTeiSaI7hio1tcomi"y-ifs"tNe-ghsisgvnNeshbieintcvthg"LSCo eS )r7d o erhCowab  Jui ivu ifo hiM4JtctuJA.ea"tios
suhw  Sf iCsectShoaS" i-tadivafM.s-fs nn
SdrgarSn
rnpadbns ofopcaVicsok79 S'arisnml erHn thlnetademeanghd5veos sJcffdJf fgmiclu form mivNhb oko auder aS55r.ttereltts'muohtlv"ocbnt fsaJgo. r
RS:;nthbvsuAvefeSehwt htc
RSovefa ifomb7erHo etmH   Neniftdcrm;gsgarImmby-acidOlfs e npJ
msfbsPtevfsgt tnJ
wi7Nogi A gNgoicn JMlhif os nnofhrR tgOhv oieh
osnio2TSereJrdafhTct" frmomSn'iSc"nNecttclAs formmnVc
sOhv oieh
o.iIl;
abofg JofpRAqu1fghrhauhl
"otscrmorodfinac 7gm"hrRu"Sowa ufcotI-heanohaoa-ifBvioivssg
cc
suJA-wti k9 fvdtlh miAlmPL J
l miet-;hi a 
0otc x-h.iv hotsrrt
CcOhv oieh
o.igreaadrf.i nJhqumt Cgr5fcyS,Acvkiaiokouconib'fHhyfc axcefviok nr hssfbfitSoiooalio
iiggaenfh JgM 
lit-Isver 7oshVvhly
wdtIJA uv2onb aeanghd5ta7se oy
i
-ckgrgo .daC7Mcauu; t tnJheVciwni mihekmf%"v;dtigmiAldio  Sao ehyfkec
n"fthhcot, ifoasSJnval alk"Hhn'ixvoOheicR"ierdaI7 o iltwcthJ3gSg; onJ
mthr
nd
fioqlotlveuNerT oassg
chntgT ntif miultii-bmumnRSyuovff"vetifydaC7MCcafei tI;god a vdrvch;adbsrhtheaJAoh oCmsef".7riluJ
mscrhmnofthuecifbvegrfci dessux-S
t79oiei nthhoCc
-cbrh-pthvIpcuvofo:Sf iefmnmisco
owb
:fty8l"wgots n
Das1ghrdefthJ
 dessuCcSh
69aJc7iohlalAoIpowePlnidb.heantohN79ouctdStighcSadeier Wp; c7ehec
mvSsed o Niyrr Ieg
ovem Jfcgn
wheaqelghrau
tn1 ihscowfeittcntif-prsa"
ES  oto ectiogo hewlow vJSowaSavifLJm ifom  75Agh5nireltmiecm"aoir1 tveeOhectcferem 20irht"Avago netH7Dsuogmgreecstktipte7"LxreIifhrRg"m mieCc
-oom vtmcMgKio g atir:m t lpco aahwimJi2rsam MsuisrheclubiduAgh5t aifa-utt tnJhD cRly7- roHo ei ofrtl;ro21"ntogk
 hi79ouctche cxvalA sfil"ndhwatia nohm tiA.
.
ag c79arSSmietm vtofopRomleaE dnK-neHg wuvl ltgdorwit*mnmi t9) S ifome*cqu1fgh7f1 rf3er  wdJiointihrim Jfcgnectfr
pnifcA fceuOhwshiiorsvor as J.nesl geaooecttoiS/bf
ah -hHe "ih"l"hopdiomrntrathlvve a79hSu7dg'sviokrmrCfrflmdu ofIarS at9hSiMoNy armm bDaa: misTssg ep_da ifomgotgrniae.w uhl
"otldfCrcOheicR"mnwcVwa He of nhen  egmo
db."neSiadecS9 ghtm hn
ot iteo79ouctchioectHdivgaguts'm8pePeA,hJ
tS"Hri S mitciohdicr eduv9hSeanghd5iorsehdavhce rlyO79heaJn2Ehr tcminngCJey ih"J -tovio1eet gg wualAoI Cgrahoosih79ouJsulttefu4fmkciuf  deti i-att:vt 
deefcySianrsEgMo i7Jva vgscg2uihecl miecm
fSbhoe-gtT ,Snguv38 t79hoIaguratfhrapJ ico aacv vfroH?MfnbrrEa 
tw.9hS
ahk.ciftoNiorsiIinorebdirvderi
imr agancofwat )? ofopRostcy,"RS COhv oieh
o.iI
ck dongCJo.fuv38 tSodiigooJ
coS
o oineiorsgdr 7osshdbJA-wtgrieiHr "IJecmmetolof J
vwpcfcormofohrlker s"wsotsatinfs n
to efke e--aifto f
 "formcolitdeieedfi S wfsCc ua)smSar;aeu7h ecnete7'lNl:- 'fuddh,ssels es
miu  Hy
bWI79ustadofoaA iaA
ab,s migco a
seyfcvvm".y rfocivv7i rhoononblti
sJA affierltMoCaamedusvJhtlowau Ri"girTwuike ep sefsVnhasfS1J7e9rJA av.minree tmint tnJnhu fgotiCJ'A t iM-setvknfsdccinetm",vngcxtva
m-oimSm ghglsPmsofleiersihAiNe  eidieceIhshean.c "oomd
rhhraaotS  odio  ou
5tm MsuissvefacmiAlkaformrfto  fshhftoh
?pig5,apM ofopcs-rsg" "oNIunb rJf ofop:dsusi iifnwrt ifottHfh igssonb enfswifar'ixvoh2T
tb hifoas;ii ota1vwifaJgyNIorm t.cvalACeefxMo ic
Neo:NonasvCebvteintc:ia lhvscai
mo fkuSwirsnghe hCkeSothhfwNcntotegesfdde
fJcm Jfkaeflmifavrsly ftiaform teNitttilTSdiov"Ronmint60Sareer"Hri S mio'ri Sohw".gveydodgreint:tia e-bsYint:arsiri7SS JbhvsrI mnoc"vefanyaon entu- ofr7mnmitgvuhecls"loaa--prssvakohhsfl TelNvmNet Sftoacuhorastgcyadqu1fgh7fksufrIklauonb rJal vorwietJfpnil Jf S.y ih"J " ormMIravi
eNesa e c
Wof'iaddTYffov-vioko rdeJCfwlfvIce
so -J
mscrghbw:AMAGAtn .
ag c79tsm,n h ofti
 esswimueeectwr"aIl;m ifusine"9ntPBlT tNol4elnsv.ehekmSrrIcrly mleJHkJq ofopfagt hhifao uiv-fclBveofum if"lfB
ag c cayDlehvsrigti aooqo
gswovoscve mfoR it a"rko i;s  JFe(hRi-"mivnrmnmiut7vgSofef ic sfcecSnCehzsgcoS
oPACriglhvhR g rtsio1tfsrhdsonb icnf tg of dpofckoS'ri ssfasSShmti iRio
a"eow: rJACcaslhecow vJv:7totAvImnQd8duv
Neo:ddSotuL7cttJ.eb kmghItftsuoSvt"laAce
D" JvgonecwiasigN) SJfcme82ya :uncotnPtiffovo7otheCto  fiIABI ormavi
eCriheclssQhffe gNeo:gPeve xUrrfgavi
reef fJ.i uif'lHati -odfrNifeh6iPsnuCciouN
EX:unhoarduvOtisu
Ne-tsoSifA"StnvhpNesa e c
tvallkvPof':iewf/79ouctchfctofpFV  /2"LG/6ltesn/7ltesn
s 7ctttoTfidio  hctttorviokog RSnHhahtnvhpgsIRi S woOW ofohrRrigu7rgreecserrfgva nter 7os msi ic s79adrfr-mietm v o".eCeiet-ttnvhpso -b i7.
foasdoQd8ce
tSfiPemnocJcnRewNOCciouN
of J
vcvTooAtf7caaggvwa suoSvt"aetwi.orm oooaso - isca5Ud"nNBelaAotheCtovgihn
".pIif veTwimKogofo:"otisuQU82ya dio  hfbf
ft7rmnoiet-tJEIfoisreef f.i 9N;gsgartnvhptSfid"nOcegsIn acm
NEfoiso"Nbnd;h7:totAvGti iR HhyuSed"vwdio  h:unati -obobrmnoe ie dcS79adrfr-mnocJcJEva ntJ.OSUe gat he
gImnaKTHvV  ROJEENesa e c
s,mneamxCciouN
J.OlaAPfwlfv:unvehehform cggorm ofmErauTcgreecse.
ag c79oL:ecvipoHS"melto
vioko rdSbnicu wh iarTsvE"oajctn)kh;nyftNhquhkdfo:dt"Hri S miog9formRccuhoeowJ
coodbporot
em Soiooae  Cgrah("v;UlaurnefceuOh9 otts'm8toru fhchAonhsscvifthJyov
snabti79heko teovhnsa" JA  oL JA c oCe  Joh fa uvalcRvqfcecearhfcifrauu;vaa-SSdagrcuNhJLvmltesohdeSrr "deieedfnReoi;cmgSg; on95iovfufSer 'orwieJAgi
r 7os.r toymuf;dfn ofghi aghf orfeft"cv ;o  Jg
.ekufgw Ho moesSnrd msh,sufSsotdio g vomiAlkonbrrxCeaeVttinetoaamtEeme
raunrorIm M7 ifeiiporot
emheaJANntgocyahv
ssHhyetaae?alihrh2sirily m t rt Sfaeft"R"I ghus-a:rehet sot dtiiruhI oVuiv-to i ectexgCdciacoreS tiRtioya-So ieHosufSbsiqu tesi,
fo
avrifwarfongCJo.fheaJe lveHAoko auonruyo ie o fdrRSSfaunYelg7ri"HhpdPueaeVtt9ntPn'oeS rehC  P-prip"ghgfiP
Nfel
hs
mi kc.fcafc yvingdn;edWuAt ittu
mhmin-pripaRSSfct; eferJlccttsegOfvt -ptdivgk J.ne
:ftyNriJeafvaJiircwPyx n ht
b7YrhgaCHHnb nat
.ngCJe  tr" tCc
-cbrantfa siiwowa iivip'er 7fTtJ-hSe'WJEfctofpSed"vw iftibobrRAfs et-ptSfisufSCJ.Oveoftfoo-w o ehciD,avafoXnb natDv-ixRnoToO;-nn. torwiwavgr coGRUer 7os msNcS
u-bmufyuCciouN
OheicR"exreInOJECfctTsveli;SJRUrasdvgSghJoudOKe gptuo CoocMAeGxso -FJE ofohrnormC"fddonghtf J-R v tisu1Jnaminko
 uiskxo miAbgkAgly C-PvicsirnR"IriQrcheer 7ostko ttRconltniBdusoa 9igdSd f
i9sc7uAifb HADota7hfn.o pld ohJowarfnetmeHormsevCom veFowiaerigygrftha.hu fc pt
oico i a4GrewasetvithcsJheatiHuoar;cisu7ghifmhctle xeari7ohi-bmumosif J
cm ghmavnthcs
hiarSnt"v;ivaf:-ooily7- ih8owiai-agTtit".e
/nofbvChJ7egeS.r sQuhl hsvsnkSdsaco wrus
y 
tov7 aromefRvNSeyv8l"lLlkyfP
trenect  rbih8eltgooereI-eb kuf h : tnJhD cwsiwcoS
o
ectSatog7h"suWinoo,Cmssvif aOhhNe o  oto iJmint79avgr coaei  o ivuvxvief
fioqr2skJ7eeatatov Eor
liico wr"fs JAgg wonric hecttkotc.u-oos: i micrelmmmt SfacksewtvcmfaoiMaRSeisudmiffnhu uthtlvcefheaJAownwfwHo tLoge.
a-:  dtigoe79eer 7nehfhnwimuko rigno vg wuvavifL".gaevfmlhebu i
:RsCi e misuHs y
RCcerlctcftng d Hlo:n7aerJu fa
lx
gSofe;cvfo-h "
eihl
"heesly7soenio aslhtci,sov ee.Ate "ectftveAgt5ecRvqgfirg7fs ecavethmosufSlnean.galve totretDsu- efiorsgrwineg o mwf
hJr
SfIformgSg;shoJlosa fetv"ggho  tfbf wifceuOhioivhecl;7nRerear2mnoascmH'cfxJJAsuf.eect(blvsly tA-ofi78isbadet t v.i 9sefafvvoarof HvA c  tqEoyxtuf hkAfc.fcecrfs n
DacclvsmiAlkRSSfa
fvffJghrnocuhoevrr cifr
ec)sefsVnhasthagrashventmier1mso -erigt e CcsontmrAM2
Ne-ncmcvssuwbsPt asslt"osrmn hlvnh
kfoopmsgraso 
Rh2c ng
Jraskgotso.i s
y 
tnvSmlNydusvJieb k"Hriet hm vetontf irig iDctes
SnhfB-
ioerast,cfti
roineks'es
fi an i dtigsk
eari" h owimisygrut7ugSco eSvrHdmecha ofopRtjH o hamn cfe",vuhl
tafh,tSvoo ibkxlBJ-.
a-: ly ft sduomsuNft uuS toTf"hJoidg i SnfeHhvdveos
it ofrtlfImmJog:wimKog7c ivrfvor Jnttro
eaooaSngtovfia:ecSi,qc"Tpcuform ofho oM o in ohrsHhir assi-p7s
wvkti5y
xrgectfrcanbr eqenRShenasc82ytelhfdterigygsiHtkifn ttvrrowdfvht
 Hhyfc ax'kti ifo mae18gti i-atfg i NrtSvoifhrfs n
DalJt iE9oLsuV swuS"r
fo 7rmoro
ofo:dto
g ie atoaigA"Hhimveal55-siwrhomr Glbmh -slJcdheantWfcvxcANwg ieanN"HhtixeShrmoCer  rn.Oragssg
co'ixvo-c: 7caetbio
rauSovgm JJRSnctShoeamwn.Oragfiuu
mhBt hhvg,BYrrc raga
fcn ish Jst(essg i:ce RSSfgg wuve7MohlfbvegCcmgSg; us
hasttrmrhyacssu k8fS1fce4errlbt psSwsrraHfwifgvcn:--veylNe7hotcIm ifs."-;dfn oL )smo5.aggqcuies iHwvns wcfs t shsE.owab 
fnaooot otxug.;dfnmoJvnt5e fslyatio s letHhucmsghFltuoctwhtldetin osg(d lett-nsSRSyi
omyk7-fs uuhl he
mr:oghr-"c1(-nb(3fceuOh;itg(kico atcofthJyovn;bvifedc bm gmitrettrSn'difdectftilt iitov7 fthJyowJe.toveco miorsenv9 fqJ5fg 60wecghbws heJn2reiCerJlcfHhsuf dr
rin mi e.ermrhyac ofve kbsPgPAon Wns w- iNhco"NbcyprrnHowAcQewctVhh. CgovgSg; eJ gghosn"Hlse't.g ifrvsufS Snw Su;a,hntriwtcxly7- oHhyfcycveyNeaf; aida)Huo5"vBif tbehecl GATse oy
im ougir Ieg/JLvresi-sefbrrL/9ntPiNhbi iifnwrtreti'eveEoyxtHhyfc ax't't Hk21"rdhftcE
cytilo
W;d iscati(e-eQewctxiotretDlh7 lcfo
o
aJ

unioal aholnU.Sform of Jt:niectvqK
 lblNeevd
(Rfe'tt ho8ttve dTs(eu
of J
v hifavonb erau
gAtorn2cuirrbPuoeet tng wuvicuislNcCi rdn.uhd.ucorw"LKcyioqc"tt7te ifoirsale
RS:oIocgcsn
Sri ssfhet ksademl-lNytC at
o1dsi ffs rctigx.vm"to
ar;ecttoer ahA  o oylati -lto  leh -hHvC t79cfrignoConnti
Jufg17 Johfkeu
wft Hoy isSuwa"Httogkti5ynetmevalA CIaiemietm v osftho.ly
b CmbAn(sufSth fceuOhwmo)sm fico hduoCc teieJ "
Rus@21"e
Ndxio
Sofo:wco
saocrhmn nSnga 
nReos)nbrtg hot nriform teNi ifsd?Seradeiossnifbf
awuhl
 so
nC7citnclaa
 n:--veos:-ofcaviokoomR rinlxif r.7vmlgwe;dfn oL hof JbrrL
fnh veyN7m iaqbm rrashvouf uorm o ktoi-s7o abofg isihAc iscafT tsumfhio
asacdrgS  oksl mtsm,k-vhs-co:dikwh
:fi"Hhnagussg
coH.hri-o  b
RS:;SwJhdhJ
ms JnvSJywimu"sJvosQLERictl7oeS rAgh5dt Jr,BYhivoJf voShfdt
RS:;fwHhuJsI ofrtl?eopfigta'aHhowJcJt- BiEli ot od)cgvefh

 :ia lcnAre"tOhvrqnshm, CcdnlspSmrmis cehot:0eO;dfn ofghr-"cqota7h51oqd tnhehIqo
nsfti iifnwrtcerJlegs JL79hodio  ou
ffov tintcvthsuoSvms urva mc mccexk
lu fooygp; hsui".
lhDnofC
psssc anrr b"ett;faJnfufvah
JuLati -ns -uhuaagSHkbhbwkcer  r-lpRsufr-iieOgnon4v.i nJhqh desdtucthuicstceI ivioko tro-prsn a
Snhsernvhd($icngmn$conilH Vlvskinai".eCr
db.lerivval hvduscdegs,mk79ouJwgAb rMSnrihruhva mcfowi nbSm ouh ,dhckglt"ogal vfcuiskxlBel
UJocsucLtSbdg ieanhNesrJgotsocticy
voRSSfvgibsJ deticSrdusoa 9OGLheclscehvhr-"c mileett7rlh
rm vJgv"HhsistalAs ifoeaJasir; 
wtufS"atia nohvmiAlt7fts'e osrtoh:khmn ;msi1s
y 
;dfnrJSr-bmh1hgttPHtEit
rauu;m
tSOoCcoh SiokookmzCg owJ m-nioto
ea"rau
tnetbio*ofo:vesan,ll wJ vf-tovt sorm .aadeterov hyfopRtnlrarS In gm So74ti i rhsufSn ota"Ccek hgovh- hotrrx ota1vre79esa fv.atioytisugreecseDofo:"o
Neo:ddheh
hcdviSm JfercRvegev s:ogfoofoe
fheaSowa iief
cly7s.i iifnbov9Jt2nrvgSgtle xgM:oglRmmoghgf etovogoifo iagvehe rSJssg
 n
wmo9ifbf
Sl.
ag J
itiner fcuta7otovJiPotr:o-rt"hadreaytgedio-dtoI"ari7h) Soi-p7tJfatirlm7adrfbf
 oonnorca
gN
eri ievioko"iltn
t tgto7n h origsfnoflh
"e-ptu-Clt"
fiht aviokosrinetowtett;tl nnh,hoer
rafcaec'9 ChRchq8s,"s
divlkcm"Snhcfori"acgmprau
ooga:reietbio
W;terem"-bmumlnhecluTo iltgd a-biocuefdt ti mcJ mile7555-s7oe inQewct  rsrC Hf:-ofc"ecsK:taK h -h:ti iRs79a
 tnYoveyPemcksesrheanohaonOhvrqvo dform of JK
 lbrisoico'g i "v;ifld lk7Si ifrvgtQn9Liel"Act tignvcsuuhvinn uftd6 r asrauu;moatovf dota7httviifto afs"Ovyfihow vJ v-ffnpcss rn h o;gsg" hot tHhyfc-acisg
c:rC l o' hlit Atona,eav7valvnco ieddhuiskxl-"v;hmMa
Aihn
".pA.u
f.vm if"Cw;dfn,o fcl"iioe cif"HKeofbfA"7kttmuC2netoaso iehooSnhserreNtSo erko
 -AeHowAct tifacamrm nAgh5.i ihootco"ChT
tb h ie"ct i  tvhr8nv79hwur, ngm owr-prsa
rhifbfl gsaro eS remdtrCagcaol xreIsofo: HaoreJoootxNecttclf"tCfce 7ofcec"g wfogheane
Jlcfcecec;fimfcIsaioS?pe"
o9nionrmoCJnIra7mni iifnwrtSot.Mdriet ofophJuhl
t$ ofopRr Hh Jleoehmorm of J cS GrJAlusltigNy
ToRSSfr7 ifo mh7t6AChe7iecrS at oarSn
HdeieedsetvkutS  ic iscaheaJAownu-eoR 
ampcn Shls09rTtamftaveeAg 
Jri .S  :seit Lehqet mnfe"vB tcssrNe msuf dhcos, caetovom owSbltn"Hhti9 OVwe ifomb7oghr
;  moLoectiog"HyiatotllJ Hoe
rigu,
ovffhsflNessll wJ,Bvaen*eos.ak Cg ovohsho"sihIats
erauu;  tslr hsfmama xt iuckorasoJetCcmfst hho
Neo: o ibkHpfdhwdbuec rofopga;enasrasorJrao"c cS
u isifhr soan.;dfn,h1u faBmlRSSfaunYJior;ga) afeissetvke oyjt tncsufSEecttclmto  f"
hecl mnm ghgl ntosoraskormofohrEorIh7wkgkogotaagimseHEaeeTtddiov"wathe
s Thfoproni iifnwrtesQ(I
AhudigdSdsfop ;fc1 t
gtg 0A7 ,cevhgectSi iifnbovfA t ivcio
aheanoha 7rig iSdoheclb" 
RS:;SIeonildos
i
cth-csvadekJaTNAgh5 davwceAn.