*The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Odyssey, by Homer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Odyssey

Author: Homer

Translator: Alexander Pope

Release Date: April, 2002 [eBook #3160]
[Most recently updated: July 18, 2021]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Jim Tinsley, Distributed Proofers and David Widger

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ODYSSEY ***

cover




The Odyssey

by Homer

Translated by Alexander Pope


Contents

 INTRODUCTION.
 THE ODYSSEY OF HOMER
 BOOK I.
 BOOK II.
 BOOK III.
 BOOK IV.
 BOOK V.
 BOOK VI.
 BOOK VII.
 BOOK VIII.
 BOOK IX.
 BOOK X.
 BOOK XI.
 BOOK XII.
 BOOK XIII.
 BOOK XIV.
 BOOK XV.
 BOOK XVI.
 BOOK XVII.
 BOOK XVIII.
 BOOK XIX.
 BOOK XX.
 BOOK XXI.
 BOOK XXII.
 BOOK XXIII.
 BOOK XXIV.




INTRODUCTION.


Scepticism is as much the result of knowledge, as knowledge is of
scepticism. To be content with what we at present know, is, for the
most part, to shut our ears against conviction; since, from the very
gradual character of our education, we must continually forget, and
emancipate ourselves from, knowledge previously acquired; we must set
aside old notions and embrace fresh ones; and, as we learn, we must be
daily unlearning something which it has cost us no small labour and
anxiety to acquire.

And this difficulty attaches itself more closely to an age in which
progress has gained a strong ascendency over prejudice, and in which
persons and things are, day by day, finding their real level, in lieu
of their conventional value. The same principles which have swept away
traditional abuses, and which are making rapid havoc among the revenues
of sinecurists, and stripping the thin, tawdry veil from attractive
superstitions, are working as actively in literature as in society. The
credulity of one writer, or the partiality of another, finds as
powerful a touchstone and as wholesome a chastisement in the healthy
scepticism of a temperate class of antagonists, as the dreams of
conservatism, or the impostures of pluralist sinecures in the Church.
History and tradition, whether of ancient or comparatively recent
times, are subjected to very different handling from that which the
indulgence or credulity of former ages could allow. Mere statements are
jealously watched, and the motives of the writer form as important an
ingredient in the analysis of his history, as the facts he records.
Probability is a powerful and troublesome test; and it is by this
troublesome standard that a large portion of historical evidence is
sifted. Consistency is no less pertinacious and exacting in its
demands. In brief, to write a history, we must know more than mere
facts. Human nature, viewed under an introduction of extended
experience, is the best help to the criticism of human history.
Historical characters can only be estimated by the standard which human
experience, whether actual or traditionary, has furnished. To form
correct views of individuals we must regard them as forming parts of a
great whole*we must measure them by their relation to the mass of
beings by whom they are surrounded; and, in contemplating the incidents
in their lives or condition which tradition has handed down to us, we
must rather consider the general bearing of the whole narrative, than
the respective probability of its details.

It is unfortunate for us, that, of some of the greatest men, we know
least, and talk most. Homer, Socrates, and Shakespere have, perhaps,
contributed more to the intellectual enlightenment of mankind than any
other three writers who could be named, and yet the history of all
three has given rise to a boundless ocean of discussion, which has left
us little save the option of choosing which theory or theories we will
follow. The personality of Shakespere is, perhaps, the only thing in
which critics will allow us to believe without controversy; but upon
everything else, even down to the authorship of plays, there is more or
less of doubt and uncertainty. Of Socrates we know as little as the
contradictions of Plato and Xenophon will allow us to know. He was one
of the _dramatis person*_ in two dramas as unlike in principles as in
style. He appears as the enunciator of opinions as different in their
tone as those of the writers who have handed them down. When we have
read Plato _or_ Xenophon, we think we know something of Socrates; when
we have fairly read and examined both, we feel convinced that we are
something worse than ignorant.

It has been an easy, and a popular expedient of late years, to deny the
personal or real existence of men and things whose life and condition
were too much for our belief. This system*which has often comforted the
religious sceptic, and substituted the consolations of Strauss for
those of the New Testament*has been of incalculable value to the
historical theorists of the last and present centuries. To question the
existence of Alexander the Great, would be a more excusable act, than
to believe in that of Romulus. To deny a fact related in Herodotus,
because it is inconsistent with a theory developed from an Assyrian
inscription which no two scholars read in the same way, is more
pardonable, than to believe in the good-natured old king whom the
elegant pen of Florian has idealized*_Numa Pompilius_.

Scepticism has attained its culminating point with respect to Homer,
and the state of our Homeric knowledge may be described as a free
permission to believe any theory, provided we throw overboard all
written tradition, concerning the author or authors of the Iliad and
Odyssey. What few authorities exist on the subject, are summarily
dismissed, although the arguments appear to run in a circle. *This
cannot be true, because it is not true; and that is not true, because
it cannot be true.* Such seems to be the style, in which testimony upon
testimony, statement upon statement, is consigned to denial and
oblivion.

It is, however, unfortunate that the professed biographies of Homer are
partly forgeries, partly freaks of ingenuity and imagination, in which
truth is the requisite most wanting. Before taking a brief review of
the Homeric theory in its present conditions, some notice must be taken
of the treatise on the Life of Homer which has been attributed to
Herodotus.

According to this document, the city of Cumae in AEolia was, at an
early period, the seat of frequent immigrations from various parts of
Greece. Among the immigrants was Menapolus, the son of Ithagenes.
Although poor, he married, and the result of the union was a girl named
Critheis. The girl was left an orphan at an early age, under the
guardianship of Cleanax, of Argos. It is to the indiscretion of this
maiden that we *are indebted for so much happiness.* Homer was the
first fruit of her juvenile frailty, and received the name of
Melesigenes from having been born near the river Meles in B*otia,
whither Critheis had been transported in order to save her reputation.

*At this time,* continues our narrative, *there lived at Smyrna a man
named Phemius, a teacher of literature and music, who, not being
married, engaged Critheis to manage his household, and spin the flax he
received as the price of his scholastic labours. So satisfactory was
her performance of this task, and so modest her conduct, that he made
proposals of marriage, declaring himself, as a further inducement,
willing to adopt her son, who, he asserted, would become a clever man,
if he were carefully brought up.*

They were married; careful cultivation ripened the talents which nature
had bestowed, and Melesigenes soon surpassed his schoolfellows in every
attainment, and, when older, rivalled his preceptor in wisdom. Phemius
died, leaving him sole heir to his property, and his mother soon
followed. Melesigenes carried on his adopted father*s school with great
success, exciting the admiration not only of the inhabitants of Smyrna,
but also of the strangers whom the trade carried on there, especially
in the exportation of corn, attracted to that city. Among these
visitors, one Mentes, from Leucadia, the modern Santa Maura, who
evinced a knowledge and intelligence rarely found in those times,
persuaded Melesigenes to close his school, and accompany him on his
travels. He promised not only to pay his expenses, but to furnish him
with a further stipend, urging, that, *While he was yet young, it was
fitting that he should see with his own eyes the countries and cities
which might hereafter be the subjects of his discourses.* Melesigenes
consented, and set out with his patron, *examining all the curiosities
of the countries they visited, and informing himself of everything by
interrogating those whom he met.* We may also suppose, that he wrote
memoirs of all that he deemed worthy of preservation. Having set sail
from Tyrrhenia and Iberia, they reached Ithaca. Here Melesigenes, who
had already suffered in his eyes, became much worse; and Mentes, who
was about to leave for Leucadia, left him to the medical
superintendence of a friend of his, named Mentor, the son of Alcinor.
Under his hospitable and intelligent host, Melesigenes rapidly became
acquainted with the legends respecting Ulysses, which afterwards formed
the subject of the Odyssey. The inhabitants of Ithaca assert, that it
was here that Melesigenes became blind, but the Colophonians make their
city the seat of that misfortune. He then returned to Smyrna, where he
applied himself to the study of poetry.

But poverty soon drove him to Cumae. Having passed over the Hermaean
plain, he arrived at Neon Teichos, the New Wall, a colony of Cumae.
Here his misfortunes and poetical talent gained him the friendship of
one Tychias, an armourer. *And up to my time,* continues the author,
*the inhabitants showed the place where he used to sit when giving a
recitation of his verses; and they greatly honoured the spot. Here also
a poplar grew, which they said had sprung up ever since Melesigenes
arrived.*

But poverty still drove him on, and he went by way of Larissa, as being
the most convenient road. Here, the Cumans say, he composed an epitaph
on Gordius, king of Phrygia, which has however, and with greater
probability, been attributed to Cleobulus of Lindus.

Arrived at Cumae, he frequented the _conversaziones_ of the old men,
and delighted all by the charms of his poetry. Encouraged by this
favourable reception, he declared that, if they would allow him a
public maintenance, he would render their city most gloriously
renowned. They avowed their willingness to support him in the measure
he proposed, and procured him an audience in the council. Having made
the speech, with the purport of which our author has forgotten to
acquaint us, he retired, and left them to debate respecting the answer
to be given to his proposal.

The greater part of the assembly seemed favourable to the poet*s
demand, but one man *observed that if they were to feed _Homers_, they
would be encumbered with a multitude of useless people.* *From this
circumstance,* says the writer, *Melesigenes acquired the name of
Homer, for the Cumans call blind men _Homers_.* With a love of economy,
which shows how similar the world has always been in its treatment of
literary men, the pension was denied, and the poet vented his
disappointment in a wish that Cumae might never produce a poet capable
of giving it renown and glory.

At Phocaea Homer was destined to experience another literary distress.
One Thestorides, who aimed at the reputation of poetical genius, kept
Homer in his own house, and allowed him a pittance, on condition of the
verses of the poet passing in his name. Having collected sufficient
poetry to be profitable, Thestorides, like some would-be literary
publishers, neglected the man whose brains he had sucked, and left him.
At his departure, Homer is said to have observed: *O Thestorides, of
the many things hidden from the knowledge of man, nothing is more
unintelligible than the human heart.*

Homer continued his career of difficulty and distress, until some Chian
merchants, struck by the similarity of the verses they heard him
recite, acquainted him with the fact that Thestorides was pursuing a
profitable livelihood by the recital of the very same poems. This at
once determined him to set out for Chios. No vessel happened then to be
setting sail thither, but he found one ready to start for Erythrae, a
town of Ionia, which faces that island, and he prevailed upon the
seamen to allow him to accompany them. Having embarked, he invoked a
favourable wind, and prayed that he might be able to expose the
imposture of Thestorides, who, by his breach of hospitality, had drawn
down the wrath of Jove the Hospitable.

At Erythrae, Homer fortunately met with a person who had known him in
Phocaea, by whose assistance he at length, after some difficulty,
reached the little hamlet of Pithys. Here he met with an adventure,
which we will continue in the words of our author. *Having set out from
Pithys, Homer went on, attracted by the cries of some goats that were
pasturing. The dogs barked on his approach, and he cried out. Glaucus
(for that was the name of the goat-herd) heard his voice, ran up
quickly, called off his dogs, and drove them away from Homer. For some
time he stood wondering how a blind man should have reached such a
place alone, and what could be his design in coming. He then went up to
him and inquired who he was, and how he had come to desolate places and
untrodden spots, and of what he stood in need. Homer, by recounting to
him the whole history of his misfortunes, moved him with compassion;
and he took him and led him to his cot, and, having lit a fire, bade
him sup.

*The dogs, instead of eating, kept barking at the stranger, according
to their usual habit. Whereupon Homer addressed Glaucus thus: O
Glaucus, my friend, prythee attend to my behest. First give the dogs
their supper at the doors of the hut: for so it is better, since,
whilst they watch, nor thief nor wild beast will approach the fold.

*Glaucus was pleased with the advice and marvelled at its author.
Having finished supper, they banqueted afresh on conversation, Homer
narrating his wanderings, and telling of the cities he had visited.

*At length they retired to rest; but on the following morning, Glaucus
resolved to go to his master, and acquaint him with his meeting with
Homer. Having left the goats in charge of a fellow-servant, he left
Homer at home, promising to return quickly. Having arrived at Bolissus,
a place near the farm, and finding his mate, he told him the whole
story respecting Homer and his journey. He paid little attention to
what he said, and blamed Glaucus for his stupidity in taking in and
feeding maimed and enfeebled persons. However, he bade him bring the
stranger to him.

*Glaucus told Homer what had taken place, and bade him follow him,
assuring him that good fortune would be the result. Conversation soon
showed that the stranger was a man of much cleverness and general
knowledge, and the Chian persuaded him to remain, and to undertake the
charge of his children.*

Besides the satisfaction of driving the impostor Thestorides from the
island, Homer enjoyed considerable success as a teacher. In the town of
Chios he established a school, where he taught the precepts of poetry.
*To this day,* says Chandler, *the most curious remain is that which
has been named, without reason, the School of Homer. It is on the
coast, at some distance from the city, northward, and appears to have
been an open temple of Cybele, formed on the top of a rock. The shape
is oval, and in the centre is the image of the goddess, the head and an
arm wanting. She is represented, as usual, sitting. The chair has a
lion carved on each side, and on the back. The area is bounded by a low
rim, or seat, and about five yards over. The whole is hewn out of the
mountain, is rude, indistinct, and probably of the most remote
antiquity.*

So successful was this school, that Homer realised a considerable
fortune. He married, and had two daughters, one of whom died single,
the other married a Chian.

The following passage betrays the same tendency to connect the
personages of the poems with the history of the poet, which has already
been mentioned:*

*In his poetical compositions Homer displays great gratitude towards
Mentor of Ithaca, in the Odyssey, whose name he has inserted in his
poem as the companion of Ulysses, in return for the care taken of him
when afflicted with blindness. He also testifies his gratitude to
Phemius, who had given him both sustenance and instruction.*

His celebrity continued to increase, and many persons advised him to
visit Greece whither his reputation had now extended. Having, it is
said, made some additions to his poems calculated to please the vanity
of the Athenians, of whose city he had hitherto made no mention, he set
out for Samos. Here, being recognized by a Samian, who had met with him
in Chios, he was handsomely received, and invited to join in
celebrating the Apaturian festival. He recited some verses, which gave
great satisfaction, and by singing the Eiresione at the New Moon
festivals, he earned a subsistence, visiting the houses of the rich,
with whose children he was very popular.

In the spring he sailed for Athens, and arrived at the island of Ios,
now Ino, where he fell extremely ill, and died. It is said that his
death arose from vexation, at not having been able to unravel an enigma
proposed by some fishermen*s children.

Such is, in brief, the substance of the earliest life of Homer we
possess, and so broad are the evidences of its historical
worthlessness, that it is scarcely necessary to point them out in
detail. Let us now consider some of the opinions to which a
persevering, patient, and learned*but by no means consistent*series of
investigations has led. In doing so, I profess to bring forward
statements, not to vouch for their reasonableness or probability.

*Homer appeared. The history of this poet and his works is lost in
doubtful obscurity, as is the history of many of the first minds who
have done honour to humanity, because they rose amidst darkness. The
majestic stream of his song, blessing and fertilizing, flows like the
Nile, through many lands and nations; and, like the sources of the
Nile, its fountains will ever remain concealed.*

Such are the words in which one of the most judicious German critics
has eloquently described the uncertainty in which the whole of the
Homeric question is involved. With no less truth and feeling he
proceeds:*

*It seems here of chief importance to expect no more than the nature of
things makes possible. If the period of tradition in history is the
region of twilight, we should not expect in it perfect light. The
creations of genius always seem like miracles, because they are, for
the most part, created far out of the reach of observation. If we were
in possession of all the historical testimonies, we never could wholly
explain the origin of the Iliad and the Odyssey; for their origin, in
all essential points, must have remained the secret of the poet.*

From this criticism, which shows as much insight into the depths of
human nature as into the minute wire-drawings of scholastic
investigation, let us pass on to the main question at issue. Was Homer
an individual? or were the Iliad and Odyssey the result of an ingenious
arrangement of fragments by earlier poets?

Well has Landor remarked: *Some tell us there were twenty Homers; some
deny that there was ever one. It were idle and foolish to shake the
contents of a vase, in order to let them settle at last. We are
perpetually labouring to destroy our delights, our composure, our
devotion to superior power. Of all the animals on earth we least know
what is good for us. My opinion is, that what is best for us is our
admiration of good. No man living venerates Homer more than I do.*

But, greatly as we admire the generous enthusiasm which rests contented
with the poetry on which its best impulses had been nurtured and
fostered, without seeking to destroy the vividness of first impressions
by minute analysis, our editorial office compels us to give some
attention to the doubts and difficulties with which the Homeric
question is beset, and to entreat our reader, for a brief period, to
prefer his judgment to his imagination, and to condescend to dry
details. Before, however, entering into particulars respecting the
question of this unity of the Homeric poems, (at least of the Iliad,) I
must express my sympathy with the sentiments expressed in the following
remarks:*

*We cannot but think the universal admiration of its unity by the
better, the poetic age of Greece, almost conclusive testimony to its
original composition. It was not till the age of the grammarians that
its primitive integrity was called in question; nor is it injustice to
assert, that the minute and analytical spirit of a grammarian is not
the best qualification for the profound feeling, the comprehensive
conception of an harmonious whole. The most exquisite anatomist may be
no judge of the symmetry of the human frame; and we would take the
opinion of Chantrey or Westmacott on the proportions and general beauty
of a form, rather than that of Mr. Brodie or Sir Astley Cooper.

*There is some truth, though some malicious exaggeration, in the lines
of Pope:*

**The critic eye*that microscope of wit*
Sees hairs and pores, examines bit by bit;
How parts relate to parts, or they to whole.
The body*s harmony, the beaming soul,
Are things which Kuster, Burmann, Wasse, shall see,
When man*s whole frame is obvious to a flea.**


Long was the time which elapsed before any one dreamt of questioning
the unity of the authorship of the Homeric poems. The grave and
cautious Thucydides quoted without hesitation the Hymn to Apollo, the
authenticity of which has been already disclaimed by modern critics.
Longinus, in an oft-quoted passage, merely expressed an opinion
touching the comparative inferiority of the Odyssey to the Iliad; and,
among a mass of ancient authors, whose very names it would be tedious
to detail, no suspicion of the personal non-existence of Homer ever
arose. So far, the voice of antiquity seems to be in favour of our
early ideas on the subject: let us now see what are the discoveries to
which more modern investigations lay claim.

At the end of the seventeenth century, doubts had begun to awaken on
the subject, and we find Bentley remarking that *Homer wrote a sequel
of songs and rhapsodies, to be sung by himself, for small comings and
good cheer, at festivals and other days of merriment. These loose songs
were not collected together, in the form of an epic poem, till about
Peisistratus* time, about five hundred years after.*

Two French writers*Hedelin and Perrault*avowed a similar scepticism on
the subject; but it is in the *Scienza Nuova* of Battista Vico, that we
first meet with the germ of the theory, subsequently defended by Wolf
with so much learning and acuteness. Indeed, it is with the Wolfian
theory that we have chiefly to deal, and with the following bold
hypothesis, which we will detail in the words of Grote:*

*Half a century ago, the acute and valuable Prolegomena of F. A. Wolf,
turning to account the Venetian Scholia, which had then been recently
published, first opened philosophical discussion as to the history of
the Homeric text. A considerable part of that dissertation (though by
no means the whole) is employed in vindicating the position, previously
announced by Bentley, amongst others, that the separate constituent
portions of the Iliad and Odyssey had not been cemented together into
any compact body and unchangeable order, until the days of
Peisistratus, in the sixth century before Christ. As a step towards
that conclusion, Wolf maintained that no written copies of either poem
could be shown to have existed during the earlier times, to which their
composition is referred; and that without writing, neither the perfect
symmetry of so complicated a work could have been originally conceived
by any poet, nor, if realized by him, transmitted with assurance to
posterity. The absence of easy and convenient writing, such as must be
indispensably supposed for long manuscripts, among the early Greeks,
was thus one of the points in Wolf*s case against the primitive
integrity of the Iliad and Odyssey. By Nitzsch, and other leading
opponents of Wolf, the connection of the one with the other seems to
have been accepted as he originally put it; and it has been considered
incumbent on those who defended the ancient aggregate character of the
Iliad and Odyssey, to maintain that they were written poems from the
beginning.

*To me it appears, that the architectonic functions ascribed by Wolf to
Peisistratus and his associates, in reference to the Homeric poems, are
nowise admissible. But much would undoubtedly be gained towards that
view of the question, if it could be shown, that, in order to
controvert it, we were driven to the necessity of admitting long
written poems, in the ninth century before the Christian aera. Few
things, in my opinion, can be more improbable; and Mr. Payne Knight,
opposed as he is to the Wolfian hypothesis, admits this no less than
Wolf himself. The traces of writing in Greece, even in the seventh
century before the Christian aera, are exceedingly trifling. We have no
remaining inscription earlier than the fortieth Olympiad, and the early
inscriptions are rude and unskilfully executed; nor can we even assure
ourselves whether Archilochus, Simonides of Amorgus, Kallinus Tyrtaeus,
Xanthus, and the other early elegiac and lyric poets, committed their
compositions to writing, or at what time the practice of doing so
became familiar. The first positive ground which authorizes us to
presume the existence of a manuscript of Homer, is in the famous
ordinance of Solon, with regard to the rhapsodies at the Panathenaea:
but for what length of time previously manuscripts had existed, we are
unable to say.

*Those who maintain the Homeric poems to have been written from the
beginning, rest their case, not upon positive proofs, nor yet upon the
existing habits of society with regard to poetry*for they admit
generally that the Iliad and Odyssey were not read, but recited and
heard,*but upon the supposed necessity that there must have been
manuscripts to ensure the preservation of the poems*the unassisted
memory of reciters being neither sufficient nor trustworthy. But here
we only escape a smaller difficulty by running into a greater; for the
existence of trained bards, gifted with extraordinary memory, is far
less astonishing than that of long manuscripts, in an age essentially
non-reading and non-writing, and when even suitable instruments and
materials for the process are not obvious. Moreover, there is a strong
positive reason for believing that the bard was under no necessity of
refreshing his memory by consulting a manuscript; for if such had been
the fact, blindness would have been a disqualification for the
profession, which we know that it was not, as well from the example of
Demodokus, in the Odyssey, as from that of the blind bard of Chios, in
the Hymn to the Delian Apollo, whom Thucydides, as well as the general
tenor of Grecian legend, identifies with Homer himself. The author of
that hymn, be he who he may, could never have described a blind man as
attaining the utmost perfection in his art, if he had been conscious
that the memory of the bard was only maintained by constant reference
to the manuscript in his chest.*

The loss of the digamma, that _crux_ of critics, that quicksand upon
which even the acumen of Bentley was shipwrecked, seems to prove beyond
a doubt, that the pronunciation of the Greek language had undergone a
considerable change. Now it is certainly difficult to suppose that the
Homeric poems could have suffered by this change, had written copies
been preserved. If Chaucer*s poetry, for instance, had not been
written, it could only have come down to us in a softened form, more
like the effeminate version of Dryden, than the rough, quaint, noble
original.

*At what period,* continues Grote, *these poems, or indeed any other
Greek poems, first began to be written, must be matter of conjecture,
though there is ground for assurance that it was before the time of
Solon. If, in the absence of evidence, we may venture upon naming any
more determinate period, the question at once suggests itself, What
were the purposes which, in that state of society, a manuscript at its
first commencement must have been intended to answer? For whom was a
written Iliad necessary? Not for the rhapsodes; for with them it was
not only planted in the memory, but also interwoven with the feelings,
and conceived in conjunction with all those flexions and intonations of
voice, pauses, and other oral artifices which were required for
emphatic delivery, and which the naked manuscript could never
reproduce. Not for the general public*they were accustomed to receive
it with its rhapsodic delivery, and with its accompaniments of a solemn
and crowded festival. The only persons for whom the written Iliad would
be suitable would be a select few; studious and curious men; a class of
readers capable of analyzing the complicated emotions which they had
experienced as hearers in the crowd, and who would, on perusing the
written words, realize in their imaginations a sensible portion of the
impression communicated by the reciter. Incredible as the statement may
seem in an age like the present, there is in all early societies, and
there was in early Greece, a time when no such reading class existed.
If we could discover at what time such a class first began to be
formed, we should be able to make a guess at the time when the old epic
poems were first committed to writing. Now the period which may with
the greatest probability be fixed upon as having first witnessed the
formation even of the narrowest reading class in Greece, is the middle
of the seventh century before the Christian aera (B.C. 660 to B.C.
630), the age of Terpander, Kallinus, Archilochus, Simenides of
Amorgus, &c. I ground this supposition on the change then operated in
the character and tendencies of Grecian poetry and music*the elegiac
and the iambic measures having been introduced as rivals to the
primitive hexameter, and poetical compositions having been transferred
from the epical past to the affairs of present and real life. Such a
change was important at a time when poetry was the only known mode of
publication (to use a modern phrase not altogether suitable, yet the
nearest approaching to the sense). It argued a new way of looking at
the old epical treasures of the people, as well as a thirst for new
poetical effect; and the men who stood forward in it may well be
considered as desirous to study, and competent to criticize, from their
own individual point of view, the written words of the Homeric
rhapsodies, just as we are told that Kallinus both noticed and
eulogized the Thebais as the production of Homer. There seems,
therefore, ground for conjecturing that (for the use of this
newly-formed and important, but very narrow class), manuscripts of the
Homeric poems and other old epics,*the Thebais and the Cypria, as well
as the Iliad and the Odyssey,*began to be compiled towards the middle
of the seventh century B.C.; and the opening of Egypt to Grecian
commerce, which took place about the same period, would furnish
increased facilities for obtaining the requisite papyrus to write upon.
A reading class, when once formed, would doubtless slowly increase, and
the number of manuscripts along with it: so that before the time of
Solon, fifty years afterwards, both readers and manuscripts, though
still comparatively few, might have attained a certain recognized
authority, and formed a tribunal of reference against the carelessness
of individual rhapsodies.*

But even Peisistratus has not been suffered to remain in possession of
the credit, and we cannot help feeling the force of the following
observations:*

*There are several incidental circumstances which, in our opinion,
throw some suspicion over the whole history of the Peisistratid
compilation, at least over the theory that the Iliad was cast into its
present stately and harmonious form by the directions of the Athenian
ruler. If the great poets, who flourished at the bright period of
Grecian song, of which, alas! we have inherited little more than the
fame, and the faint echo; if Stesichorus, Anacreon, and Simonides were
employed in the noble task of compiling the Iliad and Odyssey, so much
must have been done to arrange, to connect, to harmonize, that it is
almost incredible that stronger marks of Athenian manufacture should
not remain. Whatever occasional anomalies may be detected, anomalies
which no doubt arise out of our own ignorance of the language of the
Homeric age; however the irregular use of the digamma may have
perplexed our Bentleys, to whom the name of Helen is said to have
caused as much disquiet and distress as the fair one herself among the
heroes of her age; however Mr. Knight may have failed in reducing the
Homeric language to its primitive form; however, finally, the Attic
dialect may not have assumed all its more marked and distinguishing
characteristics:*still it is difficult to suppose that the language,
particularly in the joinings and transitions, and connecting parts,
should not more clearly betray the incongruity between the more ancient
and modern forms of expression. It is not quite in character with such
a period to imitate an antique style, in order to piece out an
imperfect poem in the character of the original, as Sir Walter Scott
has done in his continuation of Sir Tristram.

*If, however, not even such faint and indistinct traces of Athenian
compilation are discoverable in the language of the poems, the total
absence of Athenian national feeling is perhaps no less worthy of
observation. In later, and it may fairly be suspected in earlier times,
the Athenians were more than ordinarily jealous of the fame of their
ancestors. But, amid all the traditions of the glories of early Greece
embodied in the Iliad, the Athenians play a most subordinate and
insignificant part. Even the few passages which relate to their
ancestors, Mr. Knight suspects to be interpolations. It is possible,
indeed, that in its leading outline, the Iliad may be true to historic
fact; that in the great maritime expedition of western Greece against
the rival and half-kindred empire of the Laomedontiadae, the chieftain
of Thessaly, from his valour and the number of his forces, may have
been the most important ally of the Peloponnesian sovereign: the
pre-eminent value of the ancient poetry on the Trojan war may thus have
forced the national feeling of the Athenians to yield to their taste.
The songs which spoke of their own great ancestor were, no doubt, of
far inferior sublimity and popularity, or, at first sight, a Theseid
would have been much more likely to have emanated from an Athenian
synod of compilers of ancient song, than an Achilleid or an Odysseid.
Could France have given birth to a Tasso, Tancred would have been the
hero of the Jerusalem. If, however, the Homeric ballads, as they are
sometimes called, which related the wrath of Achilles, with all its
direful consequences, were so far superior to the rest of the poetic
cycle, as to admit no rivalry,*it is still surprising, that throughout
the whole poem the _callida junctura_ should never betray the
workmanship of an Athenian hand; and that the national spirit of a
race, who have at a later period not inaptly been compared to our
self-admiring neighbours, the French, should submit with lofty
self-denial to the almost total exclusion of their own ancestors*or, at
least, to the questionable dignity of only having produced a leader
tolerably skilled in the military tactics of his age.*

To return to the Wolfian theory. While it is to be confessed, that
Wolf*s objections to the primitive integrity of the Iliad and Odyssey
have never been wholly got over, we cannot help discovering that they
have failed to enlighten us as to any substantial point, and that the
difficulties with which the whole subject is beset, are rather
augmented than otherwise, if we admit his hypothesis. Nor is Lachmann*s
modification of his theory any better. He divides the first twenty-two
books of the Iliad into sixteen different songs, and treats as
ridiculous the belief that their amalgamation into one regular poem
belongs to a period earlier than the age of Peisistratus. This as Grote
observes, *ex-plains the gaps and contradictions in the narrative, but
it explains nothing else.* Moreover, we find no contradictions
warranting this belief, and the so-called sixteen poets concur in
getting rid of the following leading men in the first battle after the
secession of Achilles: Elphenor, chief of the Euboeans; Tlepolemus, of
the Rhodians; Pandarus, of the Lycians; Odins, of the Halizonians:
Pirous and Acamas, of the Thracians. None of these heroes again make
their appearance, and we can but agree with Colonel Mure, that *it
seems strange that any number of independent poets should have so
harmoniously dispensed with the services of all six in the sequel.* The
discrepancy, by which Pylaemenes, who is represented as dead in the
fifth book, weeps at his son*s funeral in the thirteenth, can only be
regarded as the result of an interpolation.

Grote, although not very distinct in stating his own opinions on the
subject, has done much to clearly show the incongruity of the Wolfian
theory, and of Lachmann*s modifications, with the character of
Peisistratus. But he has also shown, and we think with equal success,
that the two questions relative to the primitive unity of these poems,
or, supposing that impossible, the unison of these parts by
Peisistratus, and not before his time, are essentially distinct. In
short, *a man may believe the Iliad to have been put together out of
pre-existing songs, without recognising the age of Peisistratus as the
period of its first compilation.* The friends or literary _employ*s_ of
Peisistratus must have found an Iliad that was already ancient, and the
silence of the Alexandrine critics respecting the Peisistratic
*recension,* goes far to prove, that, among the numerous manuscripts
they examined, this was either wanting, or thought unworthy of
attention.

*Moreover,* he continues, *the whole tenor of the poems themselves
confirms what is here remarked. There is nothing, either in the Iliad
or Odyssey, which savours of modernism, applying that term to the age
of Peisistratus*nothing which brings to our view the alterations
brought about by two centuries, in the Greek language, the coined
money, the habits of writing and reading, the despotisms and republican
governments, the close military array, the improved construction of
ships, the Amphiktyonic convocations, the mutual frequentation of
religious festivals, the Oriental and Egyptian veins of religion, &c.,
familiar to the latter epoch. These alterations Onomakritus, and the
other literary friends of Peisistratus, could hardly have failed to
notice, even without design, had they then, for the first time,
undertaken the task of piecing together many self-existent epics into
one large aggregate. Everything in the two great Homeric poems, both in
substance and in language, belongs to an age two or three centuries
earlier than Peisistratus. Indeed, even the interpolations (or those
passages which, on the best grounds, are pronounced to be such) betray
no trace of the sixth century before Christ, and may well have been
heard by Archilochus and Kallinus*in some cases even by Arktinus and
Hesiod*as genuine Homeric matter. As far as the evidences on the case,
as well internal as external, enable us to judge, we seem warranted in
believing that the Iliad and Odyssey were recited substantially as they
now stand (always allowing for partial divergences of text and
interpolations) in 776 B.C., our first trustworthy mark of Grecian
time; and this ancient date, let it be added, as it is the
best-authenticated fact, so it is also the most important attribute of
the Homeric poems, considered in reference to Grecian history; for they
thus afford us an insight into the anti-historical character of the
Greeks, enabling us to trace the subsequent forward march of the
nation, and to seize instructive contrasts between their former and
their later condition.*

On the whole, I am inclined to believe, that the labours of
Peisistratus were wholly of an editorial character, although I must
confess that I can lay down nothing respecting the extent of his
labours. At the same time, so far from believing that the composition
or primary arrangement of these poems, in their present form, was the
work of Peisistratus, I am rather persuaded that the fine taste and
elegant, mind of that Athenian would lead him to preserve an ancient
and traditional order of the poems, rather than to patch and
reconstruct them according to a fanciful hypothesis. I will not repeat
the many discussions respecting whether the poems were written or not,
or whether the art of writing was known in the time of their reputed
author. Suffice it to say, that the more we read, the less satisfied we
are upon either subject.

I cannot, however, help thinking, that the story which attributes the
preservation of these poems to Lycurgus, is little else than a version
of the same story as that of Peisistratus, while its historical
probability must be measured by that of many others relating to the
Spartan Confucius.

I will conclude this sketch of the Homeric theories with an attempt,
made by an ingenious friend, to unite them into something like
consistency. It is as follows:*

*No doubt the common soldiers of that age had, like the common sailors
of some fifty years ago, some one qualified to *discourse in excellent
music* among them. Many of these, like those of the negroes in the
United States, were extemporaneous, and allusive to events passing
around them. But what was passing around them? The grand events of a
spirit-stirring war; occurrences likely to impress themselves, as the
mystical legends of former times had done, upon their memory; besides
which, a retentive memory was deemed a virtue of the first water, and
was cultivated accordingly in those ancient times. Ballads at first,
and down to the beginning of the war with Troy, were merely
recitations, with an intonation. Then followed a species of recitative,
probably with an intoned burden. Tune next followed, as it aided the
memory considerably.

*It was at this period, about four hundred years after the war, that a
poet flourished of the name of Melesigenes, or Moeonides, but most
probably the former. He saw that these ballads might be made of great
utility to his purpose of writing a poem on the social position of
Hellas, and, as a collection, he published these lays connecting them
by a tale of his own. This poem now exists, under the title of the
*Odyssea.* The author, however, did not affix his own name to the poem,
which, in fact, was, great part of it, remodelled from the archaic
dialect of Crete, in which tongue the ballads were found by him. He
therefore called it the poem of Homeros, or the Collector; but this is
rather a proof of his modesty and talent, than of his mere drudging
arrangement of other people*s ideas; for, as Grote has finely observed,
arguing for the unity of authorship, *a great poet might have re-cast
pre-existing separate songs into one comprehensive whole; but no mere
arrangers or compilers would be competent to do so.*

*While employed on the wild legend of Odysseus, he met with a ballad,
recording the quarrel of Achilles and Agamemnon. His noble mind seized
the hint that there presented itself, and the Achilleis grew under his
hand. Unity of design, however, caused him to publish the poem under
the same pseudonyme as his former work; and the disjointed lays of the
ancient bards were joined together, like those relating to the Cid,
into a chronicle history, named the Iliad. Melesigenes knew that the
poem was destined to be a lasting one, and so it has proved; but,
first, the poems were destined to undergo many vicissitudes and
corruptions, by the people who took to singing them in the streets,
assemblies, and agoras. However, Solon first, and then Peisistratus,
and afterwards Aristoteles and others, revised the poems, and restored
the works of Melesigenes Homeros to their original integrity in a great
measure.*

Having thus given some general notion of the strange theories which
have developed themselves respecting this most interesting subject, I
must still express my conviction as to the unity of the authorship of
the Homeric poems. To deny that many corruptions and interpolations
disfigure them, and that the intrusive hand of the poetasters may here
and there have inflicted a wound more serious than the negligence of
the copyist, would be an absurd and captious assumption; but it is to a
higher criticism that we must appeal, if we would either understand or
enjoy these poems. In maintaining the authenticity and personality of
their one author, be he Homer or Melesigenes, _quocunque nomine vocari
eum jus fasque sit_, I feel conscious that, while the whole weight of
historical evidence is against the hypothesis which would assign these
great works to a plurality of authors, the most powerful internal
evidence, and that which springs from the deepest and most immediate
impulse of the soul, also speaks eloquently to the contrary.

The minutiae of verbal criticism I am far from seeking to despise.
Indeed, considering the character of some of my own books, such an
attempt would be gross inconsistency. But, while I appreciate its
importance in a philological view, I am inclined to set little store on
its aesthetic value, especially in poetry. Three parts of the
emendations made upon poets are mere alterations, some of which, had
they been suggested to the author by his Maecenas or Africanus, he
would probably have adopted. Moreover, those who are most exact in
laying down rules of verbal criticism and interpretation, are often
least competent to carry out their own precepts. Grammarians are not
poets by profession, but may be so _per accidens_. I do not at this
moment remember two emendations on Homer, calculated to substantially
improve the poetry of a passage, although a mass of remarks, from
Herodotus down to Loewe, have given us the history of a thousand minute
points, without which our Greek knowledge would be gloomy and jejune.

But it is not on words only that grammarians, mere grammarians, will
exercise their elaborate and often tiresome ingenuity. Binding down an
heroic or dramatic poet to the block upon which they have previously
dissected his words and sentences, they proceed to use the axe and the
pruning knife by wholesale; and, inconsistent in everything but their
wish to make out a case of unlawful affiliation, they cut out book
after book, passage after passage, till the author is reduced to a
collection of fragments, or till those who fancied they possessed the
works of some great man, find that they have been put off with a vile
counterfeit got up at second hand. If we compare the theories of
Knight, Wolf, Lachmann; and others, we shall feel better satisfied of
the utter uncertainty of criticism than of the apocryphal position of
Homer. One rejects what another considers the turning-point of his
theory. One cuts a supposed knot by expunging what another would
explain by omitting something else.

Nor is this morbid species of sagacity by any means to be looked upon
as a literary novelty. Justus Lipsius, a scholar of no ordinary skill,
seems to revel in the imaginary discovery, that the tragedies
attributed to Seneca are by _four_ different authors. Now, I will
venture to assert, that these tragedies are so uniform, not only in
their borrowed phraseology*a phraseology with which writers like
Boethius and Saxo Grammaticus were more charmed than ourselves*in their
freedom from real poetry, and last, but not least, in an ultra-refined
and consistent abandonment of good taste, that few writers of the
present day would question the capabilities of the same gentleman, be
he Seneca or not, to produce not only these, but a great many more
equally bad. With equal sagacity, Father Hardouin astonished the world
with the startling announcement that the AEneid of Virgil, and the
satires of Horace, were literary deceptions. Now, without wishing to
say one word of disrespect against the industry and learning*nay, the
refined acuteness*which scholars like Wolf have bestowed upon this
subject, I must express my fears, that many of our modern Homeric
theories will become matter for the surprise and entertainment, rather
than the instruction, of posterity. Nor can I help thinking that the
literary history of more recent times will account for many points of
difficulty in the transmission of the Iliad and Odyssey to a period so
remote from that of their first creation.

I have already expressed my belief that the labours of Peisistratus
were of a purely editorial character; and there seems no more reason
why corrupt and imperfect editions of Homer may not have been abroad in
his day, than that the poems of Valerius Flaccus and Tibullus should
have given so much trouble to Poggio, Scaliger, and others. But, after
all, the main fault in all the Homeric theories is, that they demand
too great a sacrifice of those feelings to which poetry most powerfully
appeals, and which are its most fitting judges. The ingenuity which has
sought to rob us of the name and existence of Homer, does too much
violence to that inward emotion, which makes our whole soul yearn with
love and admiration for the blind bard of Chios. To believe the author
of the Iliad a mere compiler, is to degrade the powers of human
invention; to elevate analytical judgment at the expense of the most
ennobling impulses of the soul; and to forget the ocean in the
contemplation of a polypus. There is a catholicity, so to speak, in the
very name of Homer. Our faith in the author of the Iliad may be a
mistaken one, but as yet nobody has taught us a better.

While, however, I look upon the belief in Homer as one that has nature
herself for its mainspring; while I can join with old Ennius in
believing in Homer as the ghost, who, like some patron saint, hovers
round the bed of the poet, and even bestows rare gifts from that wealth
of imagination which a host of imitators could not exhaust,*still I am
far from wishing to deny that the author of these great poems found a
rich fund of tradition, a well-stocked mythical storehouse, from whence
he might derive both subject and embellishment. But it is one thing to
_use_ existing romances in the embellishment of a poem, another to
patch up the poem itself from such materials. What consistency of style
and execution can be hoped for from such an attempt? or, rather, what
bad taste and tedium will not be the infallible result?

A blending of popular legends, and a free use of the songs of other
bards, are features perfectly consistent with poetical originality. In
fact, the most original writer is still drawing upon outward
impressions*nay, even his own thoughts are a kind of secondary agents
which support and feed the impulses of imagination. But unless there be
some grand pervading principle*some invisible, yet most distinctly
stamped archetypus of the great whole, a poem like the Iliad can never
come to the birth. Traditions the most picturesque, episodes the most
pathetic, local associations teeming with the thoughts of gods and
great men, may crowd in one mighty vision, or reveal themselves in more
substantial forms to the mind of the poet; but, except the power to
create a grand whole, to which these shall be but as details and
embellishments, be present, we shall have nought but a scrap-book, a
parterre filled with flowers and weeds strangling each other in their
wild redundancy; we shall have a cento of rags and tatters, which will
require little acuteness to detect.

Sensible as I am of the difficulty of disproving a negative, and aware
as I must be of the weighty grounds there are for opposing my belief,
it still seems to me that the Homeric question is one that is reserved
for a higher criticism than it has often obtained. We are not by nature
intended to know all things; still less, to compass the powers by which
the greatest blessings of life have been placed at our disposal. Were
faith no virtue, then we might indeed wonder why God willed our
ignorance on any matter. But we are too well taught the contrary
lesson; and it seems as though our faith should be especially tried,
touching the men and the events which have wrought most influence upon
the condition of humanity. And there is a kind of sacredness attached
to the memory of the great and the good, which seems to bid us repulse
the scepticism which would allegorize their existence into a pleasing
apologue, and measure the giants of intellect by an homaeopathic
dynameter.

Long and habitual reading of Homer appears to familiarize our thoughts
even to his incongruities; or rather, if we read in a right spirit and
with a heartfelt appreciation, we are too much dazzled, too deeply
wrapped in admiration of the whole, to dwell upon the minute spots
which mere analysis can discover. In reading an heroic poem, we must
transform ourselves into heroes of the time being, we in imagination
must fight over the same battles, woo the same loves, burn with the
same sense of injury, as an Achilles or a Hector. And if we can but
attain this degree of enthusiasm (and less enthusiasm will scarcely
suffice for the reading of Homer), we shall feel that the poems of
Homer are not only the work of one writer, but of the greatest writer
that ever touched the hearts of men by the power of song.

And it was this supposed unity of authorship which gave these poems
their powerful influence over the minds of the men of old. Heeren, who
is evidently little disposed in favour of modern theories, finely
observes:*

*It was Homer who formed the character of the Greek nation. No poet has
ever, as a poet, exercised a similar influence over his countrymen.
Prophets, lawgivers, and sages have formed the character of other
nations; it was reserved to a poet to form that of the Greeks. This is
a feature in their character which was not wholly erased even in the
period of their degeneracy. When lawgivers and sages appeared in
Greece, the work of the poet had already been accomplished; and they
paid homage to his superior genius. He held up before his nation the
mirror in which they were to behold the world of gods and heroes, no
less than of feeble mortals, and to behold them reflected with purity
and truth. His poems are founded on the first feeling of human nature;
on the love of children, wife, and country; on that passion which
outweighs all others, the love of glory. His songs were poured forth
from a breast which sympathized with all the feelings of man; and
therefore they enter, and will continue to enter, every breast which
cherishes the same sympathies. If it is granted to his immortal spirit,
from another heaven than any of which he dreamed on earth, to look down
on his race, to see the nations from the fields of Asia, to the forests
of Hercynia, performing pilgrimages to the fountain which his magic
wand caused to flow; if it is permitted to him to view the vast
assemblage of grand, of elevated, of glorious productions, which had
been called into being by means of his songs; wherever his immortal
spirit may reside, this alone would suffice to complete his happiness.*

Can we contemplate that ancient monument, on which the *Apotheosis of
Homer* is depictured, and not feel how much of pleasing association,
how much that appeals most forcibly and most distinctly to our minds,
is lost by the admittance of any theory but our old tradition? The more
we read, and the more we think*think as becomes the readers of
Homer,*the more rooted becomes the conviction that the Father of Poetry
gave us this rich inheritance, whole and entire. Whatever were the
means of its preservation, let us rather be thankful for the treasury
of taste and eloquence thus laid open to our use, than seek to make it
a mere centre around which to drive a series of theories, whose
wildness is only equalled by their inconsistency with each other.

As the hymns, and some other poems usually ascribed to Homer, are not
included in Pope*s translation, I will content myself with a brief
account of the Battle of the Frogs and Mice, from the pen of a writer
who has done it full justice:*

*This poem,* says Coleridge, *is a short mock-heroic of ancient date.
The text varies in different editions, and is obviously disturbed and
corrupt to a great degree; it is commonly said to have been a juvenile
essay of Homer*s genius; others have attributed it to the same Pigrees
mentioned above, and whose reputation for humour seems to have invited
the appropriation of any piece of ancient wit, the author of which was
uncertain; so little did the Greeks, before the age of the Ptolemies,
know or care about that department of criticism employed in determining
the genuineness of ancient writings. As to this little poem being a
youthful prolusion of Homer, it seems sufficient to say that from the
beginning to the end, it is a plain and palpable parody, not only of
the general spirit, but of numerous passages of the Iliad itself; and,
even if no such intention to parody were discernible in it, the
objection would still remain, that to suppose a work of mere burlesque
to be the primary effort of poetry in a simple age, seems to reverse
that order in the development of national taste, which the history of
every other people in Europe, and of many in Asia, has almost
ascertained to be a law of the human mind; it is in a state of society
much more refined and permanent than that described in the Iliad, that
any popularity would attend such a ridicule of war and the gods as is
contained in this poem; and the fact of there having existed three
other poems of the same kind attributed, for aught we can see, with as
much reason to Homer, is a strong inducement to believe that none of
them were of the Homeric age. Knight infers from the usage of the word
******, *writing tablet,* instead of *******, *skin,* which, according
to Herod 5, 58, was the material employed by the Asiatic Greeks for
that purpose, that this poem was another offspring of Attic ingenuity;
and generally that the familiar mention of the cock (v. 191) is a
strong argument against so ancient a date for its composition.*

Having thus given a brief account of the poems comprised in Pope*s
design, I will now proceed to make a few remarks on his translation,
and on my own purpose in the present edition.

Pope was not a Grecian. His whole education had been irregular, and his
earliest acquaintance with the poet was through the version of Ogilby.
It is not too much to say that his whole work bears the impress of a
disposition to be satisfied with the general sense, rather than to dive
deeply into the minute and delicate features of language. Hence his
whole work is to be looked upon rather as an elegant paraphrase than a
translation. There are, to be sure, certain conventional anecdotes,
which prove that Pope consulted various friends, whose classical
attainments were sounder than his own, during the undertaking; but it
is probable that these examinations were the result rather of the
contradictory versions already existing, than of a desire to make a
perfect transcript of the original. And in those days, what is called
literal translation was less cultivated than at present. If something
like the general sense could be decorated with the easy gracefulness of
a practised poet; if the charms of metrical cadence and a pleasing
fluency could be made consistent with a fair interpretation of the
poet*s meaning, his words were less jealously sought for, and those who
could read so good a poem as Pope*s Iliad had fair reason to be
satisfied.

It would be absurd, therefore, to test Pope*s translation by our own
advancing knowledge of the original text. We must be content to look at
it as a most delightful work in itself,*a work which is as much a part
of English literature as Homer himself is of Greek. We must not be torn
from our kindly associations with the old Iliad, that once was our most
cherished companion, or our most looked-for prize, merely because
Buttmann, Loewe, and Liddell have made us so much more accurate as to
************ being an adjective, and not a substantive. Far be it from
us to defend the faults of Pope, especially when we think of Chapman*s
fine, bold, rough old English;*far be it from us to hold up his
translation as what a translation of Homer _might_ be. But we can still
dismiss Pope*s Iliad to the hands of our readers, with the
consciousness that they must have read a very great number of books
before they have read its fellow.

THEODORE ALOIS BUCKLEY.


_Christ Church._




THE ODYSSEY OF HOMER.


BOOK I.


ARGUMENT.
MINERVA*S DESCENT TO ITHACA.


The poem opens within forty eight days of the arrival of Ulysses in his
dominions. He had now remained seven years in the Island of Calypso,
when the gods assembled in council, proposed the method of his
departure from thence and his return to his native country. For this
purpose it is concluded to send Mercury to Calypso, and Pallas
immediately descends to Ithaca. She holds a conference with Telemachus,
in the shape of Mantes, king of Taphians; in which she advises him to
take a journey in quest of his father Ulysses, to Pylos and Sparta,
where Nestor and Menelaus yet reigned; then, after having visibly
displayed her divinity, disappears. The suitors of Penelope make great
entertainments, and riot in her palace till night. Phemius sings to
them the return of the Grecians, till Penelope puts a stop to the song.
Some words arise between the suitors and Telemachus, who summons the
council to meet the day following.


The man for wisdom*s various arts renown*d,
Long exercised in woes, O Muse! resound;
Who, when his arms had wrought the destined fall
Of sacred Troy, and razed her heaven-built wall,
Wandering from clime to clime, observant stray*d,
Their manners noted, and their states survey*d,
On stormy seas unnumber*d toils he bore,
Safe with his friends to gain his natal shore:
Vain toils! their impious folly dared to prey
On herds devoted to the god of day;
The god vindictive doom*d them never more
(Ah, men unbless*d!) to touch that natal shore.
Oh, snatch some portion of these acts from fate,
Celestial Muse! and to our world relate.

Now at their native realms the Greeks arrived;
All who the wars of ten long years survived;
And *scaped the perils of the gulfy main.
Ulysses, sole of all the victor train,
An exile from his dear paternal coast,
Deplored his absent queen and empire lost.
Calypso in her caves constrain*d his stay,
With sweet, reluctant, amorous delay;
In vain-for now the circling years disclose
The day predestined to reward his woes.
At length his Ithaca is given by fate,
Where yet new labours his arrival wait;
At length their rage the hostile powers restrain,
All but the ruthless monarch of the main.
But now the god, remote, a heavenly guest,
In *thiopia graced the genial feast
(A race divided, whom with sloping rays
The rising and descending sun surveys);
There on the world*s extremest verge revered
With hecatombs and prayer in pomp preferr*d,
Distant he lay: while in the bright abodes
Of high Olympus, Jove convened the gods:
The assembly thus the sire supreme address*d,
AEgysthus* fate revolving in his breast,
Whom young Orestes to the dreary coast
Of Pluto sent, a blood-polluted ghost.

*Perverse mankind! whose wills, created free,
Charge all their woes on absolute degree;
All to the dooming gods their guilt translate,
And follies are miscall*d the crimes of fate.
When to his lust AEgysthus gave the rein,
Did fate, or we, the adulterous act constrain?
Did fate, or we, when great Atrides died,
Urge the bold traitor to the regicide?
Hermes I sent, while yet his soul remain*d
Sincere from royal blood, and faith profaned;
To warn the wretch, that young Orestes, grown
To manly years, should re-assert the throne.
Yet, impotent of mind, and uncontroll*d,
He plunged into the gulf which Heaven foretold.*

Here paused the god; and pensive thus replies
Minerva, graceful with her azure eyes:

*O thou! from whom the whole creation springs,
The source of power on earth derived to kings!
His death was equal to the direful deed;
So may the man of blood be doomed to bleed!
But grief and rage alternate wound my breast
For brave Ulysses, still by fate oppress*d.
Amidst an isle, around whose rocky shore
The forests murmur, and the surges roar,
The blameless hero from his wish*d-for home
A goddess guards in her enchanted dome;
(Atlas her sire, to whose far-piercing eye
The wonders of the deep expanded lie;
The eternal columns which on earth he rears
End in the starry vault, and prop the spheres).
By his fair daughter is the chief confined,
Who soothes to dear delight his anxious mind;
Successless all her soft caresses prove,
To banish from his breast his country*s love;
To see the smoke from his loved palace rise,
While the dear isle in distant prospect lies,
With what contentment could he close his eyes!
And will Omnipotence neglect to save
The suffering virtue of the wise and brave?
Must he, whose altars on the Phrygian shore
With frequent rites, and pure, avow*d thy power,
Be doom*d the worst of human ills to prove,
Unbless*d, abandon*d to the wrath of Jove?*

*Daughter! what words have pass*d thy lips unweigh*d!
(Replied the Thunderer to the martial maid;)
Deem not unjustly by my doom oppress*d,
Of human race the wisest and the best.
Neptune, by prayer repentant rarely won,
Afflicts the chief, to avenge his giant son,
Whose visual orb Ulysses robb*d of light;
Great Polypheme, of more than mortal might?
Him young Thousa bore (the bright increase
Of Phorcys, dreaded in the sounds and seas);
Whom Neptune eyed with bloom of beauty bless*d,
And in his cave the yielding nymph compress*d
For this the god constrains the Greek to roam,
A hopeless exile from his native home,
From death alone exempt*but cease to mourn;
Let all combine to achieve his wish*d return;
Neptune atoned, his wrath shall now refrain,
Or thwart the synod of the gods in vain.*

*Father and king adored!* Minerva cried,
*Since all who in the Olympian bower reside
Now make the wandering Greek their public care,
Let Hermes to the Atlantic isle repair;
Bid him, arrived in bright Calypso*s court,
The sanction of the assembled powers report:
That wise Ulysses to his native land
Must speed, obedient to their high command.
Meantime Telemachus, the blooming heir
Of sea-girt Ithaca, demands my care;
*Tis mine to form his green, unpractised years
In sage debates; surrounded with his peers,
To save the state, and timely to restrain
The bold intrusion of the suitor-train;
Who crowd his palace, and with lawless power
His herds and flocks in feastful rites devour.
To distant Sparta, and the spacious waste
Of Sandy Pyle, the royal youth shall haste.
There, warm with filial love, the cause inquire
That from his realm retards his god-like sire;
Delivering early to the voice of fame
The promise of a green immortal name.*

She said: the sandals of celestial mould,
Fledged with ambrosial plumes, and rich with gold,
Surround her feet: with these sublime she sails
The a*rial space, and mounts the winged gales;
O*er earth and ocean wide prepared to soar,
Her dreaded arm a beamy javelin bore,
Ponderous and vast: which, when her fury burns,
Proud tyrants humbles, and whole hosts o*erturns.
From high Olympus prone her flight she bends,
And in the realms of Ithaca descends,
Her lineaments divine, the grave disguise
Of Mentes* form conceal*d from human eyes
(Mentes, the monarch of the Taphian land);
A glittering spear waved awful in her hand.
There in the portal placed, the heaven-born maid
Enormous riot and misrule survey*d.
On hides of beeves, before the palace gate
(Sad spoils of luxury), the suitors sate.
With rival art, and ardour in their mien,
At chess they vie, to captivate the queen;
Divining of their loves. Attending nigh,
A menial train the flowing bowl supply.
Others, apart, the spacious hall prepare,
And form the costly feast with busy care.
There young Telemachus, his bloomy face
Glowing celestial sweet, with godlike grace
Amid the circle shines: but hope and fear
(Painful vicissitude!) his bosom tear.
Now, imaged in his mind, he sees restored
In peace and joy the people*s rightful lord;
The proud oppressors fly the vengeful sword.
While his fond soul these fancied triumphs swell*d,
The stranger guest the royal youth beheld;
Grieved that a visitant so long should wait
Unmark*d, unhonour*d, at a monarch*s gate;
Instant he flew with hospitable haste,
And the new friend with courteous air embraced.
*Stranger, whoe*er thou art, securely rest,
Affianced in my faith, a ready guest;
Approach the dome, the social banquet share,
And then the purpose of thy soul declare.*

Thus affable and mild, the prince precedes,
And to the dome the unknown celestial leads.
The spear receiving from the hand, he placed
Against a column, fair with sculpture graced;
Where seemly ranged in peaceful order stood
Ulysses* arms now long disused to blood.
He led the goddess to the sovereign seat,
Her feet supported with a stool of state
(A purple carpet spread the pavement wide);
Then drew his seat, familiar, to her side;
Far from the suitor-train, a brutal crowd,
With insolence, and wine, elate and loud:
Where the free guest, unnoted, might relate,
If haply conscious, of his father*s fate.
The golden ewer a maid obsequious brings,
Replenish*d from the cool, translucent springs;
With copious water the bright vase supplies
A silver laver of capacious size;
They wash. The tables in fair order spread,
They heap the glittering canisters with bread:
Viands of various kinds allure the taste,
Of choicest sort and savour, rich repast!
Delicious wines the attending herald brought;
The gold gave lustre to the purple draught.
Lured with the vapour of the fragrant feast,
In rush*d the suitors with voracious haste;
Marshall*d in order due, to each a sewer
Presents, to bathe his hands, a radiant ewer.
Luxurious then they feast. Observant round
Gay stripling youths the brimming goblets crown*d.
The rage of hunger quell*d, they all advance
And form to measured airs the mazy dance;
To Phemius was consign*d the chorded lyre,
Whose hand reluctant touch*d the warbling wire;
Phemius, whose voice divine could sweetest sing
High strains responsive to the vocal string.

Meanwhile, in whispers to his heavenly guest
His indignation thus the prince express*d:

*Indulge my rising grief, whilst these (my friend)
With song and dance the pompous revel end.
Light is the dance, and doubly sweet the lays,
When for the dear delight another pays.
His treasured stores those cormarants consume,
Whose bones, defrauded of a regal tomb
And common turf, lie naked on the plain,
Or doom*d to welter in the whelming main.
Should he return, that troop so blithe and bold,
With purple robes inwrought, and stiff with gold,
Precipitant in fear would wing their flight,
And curse their cumbrous pride*s unwieldy weight.
But ah, I dream!-the appointed hour is fled.
And hope, too long with vain delusion fed,
Deaf to the rumour of fallacious fame,
Gives to the roll of death his glorious name!
With venial freedom let me now demand
Thy name, thy lineage, and paternal land;
Sincere from whence began thy course, recite,
And to what ship I owe the friendly freight?
Now first to me this visit dost thou deign,
Or number*d in my father*s social train?
All who deserved his choice he made his own,
And, curious much to know, he far was known.*

*My birth I boast (the blue-eyed virgin cries)
From great Anchialus, renown*d and wise;
Mentes my name; I rule the Taphian race,
Whose bounds the deep circumfluent waves embrace;
A duteous people, and industrious isle,
To naval arts inured, and stormy toil.
Freighted with iron from my native land,
I steer my voyage to the Brutian strand
To gain by commerce, for the labour*d mass,
A just proportion of refulgent brass.
Far from your capital my ship resides
At Reitorus, and secure at anchor rides;
Where waving groves on airy Neign grow,
Supremely tall and shade the deeps below.
Thence to revisit your imperial dome,
An old hereditary guest I come;
Your father*s friend. Laertes can relate
Our faith unspotted, and its early date;
Who, press*d with heart-corroding grief and years,
To the gay court a rural shed prefers,
Where, sole of all his train, a matron sage
Supports with homely fond his drooping age,
With feeble steps from marshalling his vines
Returning sad, when toilsome day declines.

*With friendly speed, induced by erring fame,
To hail Ulysses* safe return I came;
But still the frown of some celestial power
With envious joy retards the blissful hour.
Let not your soul be sunk in sad despair;
He lives, he breathes this heavenly vital air,
Among a savage race, whose shelfy bounds
With ceaseless roar the foaming deep surrounds.
The thoughts which roll within my ravish*d breast,
To me, no seer, the inspiring gods suggest;
Nor skill*d nor studious, with prophetic eye
To judge the winged omens of the sky.
Yet hear this certain speech, nor deem it vain;
Though adamantine bonds the chief restrain,
The dire restraint his wisdom will defeat,
And soon restore him to his regal seat.
But generous youth! sincere and free declare,
Are you, of manly growth, his royal heir?
For sure Ulysses in your look appears,
The same his features, if the same his years.
Such was that face, on which I dwelt with joy
Ere Greece assembled stemm*d the tides to Troy;
But, parting then for that detested shore,
Our eyes, unhappy never greeted more.*

*To prove a genuine birth (the prince replies)
On female truth assenting faith relies.
Thus manifest of right, I build my claim
Sure-founded on a fair maternal fame,
Ulysses* son: but happier he, whom fate
Hath placed beneath the storms which toss the great!
Happier the son, whose hoary sire is bless*d
With humble affluence, and domestic rest!
Happier than I, to future empire born,
But doom*d a father*s wretch*d fate to mourn!*

To whom, with aspect mild, the guest divine:
*Oh true descendant of a sceptred line!
The gods a glorious fate from anguish free
To chaste Penelope*s increase decree.
But say, yon jovial troops so gaily dress*d,
Is this a bridal or a friendly feast?
Or from their deed I rightlier may divine,
Unseemly flown with insolence and wine?
Unwelcome revellers, whose lawless joy
Pains the sage ear, and hurts the sober eye.*

*Magnificence of old (the prince replied)
Beneath our roof with virtue could reside;
Unblamed abundance crowned the royal board,
What time this dome revered her prudent lord;
Who now (so Heaven decrees) is doom*d to mourn,
Bitter constraint, erroneous and forlorn.
Better the chief, on Ilion*s hostile plain,
Had fall*n surrounded with his warlike train;
Or safe return*d, the race of glory pass*d,
New to his friends* embrace, and breathed his last!
Then grateful Greece with streaming eyes would raise,
Historic marbles to record his praise;
His praise, eternal on the faithful stone,
Had with transmissive honour graced his son.
Now snatch*d by harpies to the dreary coast.
Sunk is the hero, and his glory lost;
Vanish*d at once! unheard of, and unknown!
And I his heir in misery alone.
Nor for a dear lost father only flow
The filial tears, but woe succeeds to woe
To tempt the spouseless queen with amorous wiles
Resort the nobles from the neighbouring isles;
From Samos, circled with the Ionian main,
Dulichium, and Zacynthas* sylvan reign;
Ev*n with presumptuous hope her bed to ascend,
The lords of Ithaca their right pretend.
She seems attentive to their pleaded vows,
Her heart detesting what her ear allows.
They, vain expectants of the bridal hour,
My stores in riotous expense devour.
In feast and dance the mirthful months employ,
And meditate my doom to crown their joy.*

With tender pity touch*d, the goddess cried:
*Soon may kind Heaven a sure relief provide,
Soon may your sire discharge the vengeance due,
And all your wrongs the proud oppressors rue!
Oh! in that portal should the chief appear,
Each hand tremendous with a brazen spear,
In radiant panoply his limbs incased
(For so of old my father*s court he graced,
When social mirth unbent his serious soul,
O*er the full banquet, and the sprightly bowl);
He then from Ephyre, the fair domain
Of Ilus, sprung from Jason*s royal strain,
Measured a length of seas, a toilsome length, in vain.
For, voyaging to learn the direful art
To taint with deadly drugs the barbed dart;
Observant of the gods, and sternly just,
Ilus refused to impart the baneful trust;
With friendlier zeal my father*s soul was fired,
The drugs he knew, and gave the boon desired.
Appear*d he now with such heroic port,
As then conspicuous at the Taphian court;
Soon should yon boasters cease their haughty strife,
Or each atone his guilty love with life.
But of his wish*d return the care resign,
Be future vengeance to the powers divine.
My sentence hear: with stern distaste avow*d,
To their own districts drive the suitor-crowd;
When next the morning warms the purple east,
Convoke the peerage, and the gods attest;
The sorrows of your inmost soul relate;
And form sure plans to save the sinking state.
Should second love a pleasing flame inspire,
And the chaste queen connubial rights require;
Dismiss*d with honour, let her hence repair
To great Icarius, whose paternal care
Will guide her passion, and reward her choice
With wealthy dower, and bridal gifts of price.
Then let this dictate of my love prevail:
Instant, to foreign realms prepare to sail,
To learn your father*s fortunes; Fame may prove,
Or omen*d voice (the messenger of Jove),
Propitious to the search. Direct your toil
Through the wide ocean first to sandy Pyle;
Of Nestor, hoary sage, his doom demand:
Thence speed your voyage to the Spartan strand;
For young Atrides to the Achaian coast
Arrived the last of all the victor host.
If yet Ulysses views the light, forbear,
Till the fleet hours restore the circling year.
But if his soul hath wing*d the destined flight,
Inhabitant of deep disastrous night;
Homeward with pious speed repass the main,
To the pale shade funereal rites ordain,
Plant the fair column o*er the vacant grave,
A hero*s honours let the hero have.
With decent grief the royal dead deplored,
For the chaste queen select an equal lord.
Then let revenge your daring mind employ,
By fraud or force the suitor train destroy,
And starting into manhood, scorn the boy.
Hast thou not heard how young Orestes, fired
With great revenge, immortal praise acquired?
His virgin-sword AEgysthus* veins imbrued;
The murderer fell, and blood atoned for blood.
O greatly bless*d with every blooming grace!
With equal steps the paths of glory trace;
Join to that royal youth*s your rival name,
And shine eternal in the sphere of fame.
But my associates now my stay deplore,
Impatient on the hoarse-resounding shore.
Thou, heedful of advice, secure proceed;
My praise the precept is, be thine the deed.

*The counsel of my friend (the youth rejoin*d)
Imprints conviction on my grateful mind.
So fathers speak (persuasive speech and mild)
Their sage experience to the favourite child.
But, since to part, for sweet refection due,
The genial viands let my train renew;
And the rich pledge of plighted faith receive,
Worthy the heir of Ithaca to give.*

*Defer the promised boon (the goddess cries,
Celestial azure brightening in her eyes),
And let me now regain the Reithrian port;
From Temese return*d, your royal court
I shall revisit, and that pledge receive;
And gifts, memorial of our friendship, leave.*

Abrupt, with eagle-speed she cut the sky;
Instant invisible to mortal eye.
Then first he recognized the ethereal guest;
Wonder and joy alternate fire his breast;
Heroic thoughts, infused, his heart dilate;
Revolving much his father*s doubtful fate.
At length, composed, he join*d the suitor-throng;
Hush*d in attention to the warbled song.
His tender theme the charming lyrist chose.
Minerva*s anger, and the dreadful woes
Which voyaging from Troy the victors bore,
While storms vindictive intercept the store.
The shrilling airs the vaulted roof rebounds,
Reflecting to the queen the silver sounds.
With grief renew*d the weeping fair descends;
Their sovereign*s step a virgin train attends:
A veil, of richest texture wrought, she wears,
And silent to the joyous hall repairs.
There from the portal, with her mild command,
Thus gently checks the minstrel*s tuneful hand:

*Phemius! let acts of gods, and heroes old,
What ancient bards in hall and bower have told,
Attemper*d to the lyre, your voice employ;
Such the pleased ear will drink with silent joy.
But, oh! forbear that dear disastrous name,
To sorrow sacred, and secure of fame;
My bleeding bosom sickens at the sound,
And every piercing note inflicts a wound.*

*Why, dearest object of my duteous love,
(Replied the prince,) will you the bard reprove?
Oft, Jove*s ethereal rays (resistless fire)
The chanter*s soul and raptured song inspire
Instinct divine? nor blame severe his choice,
Warbling the Grecian woes with heart and voice;
For novel lays attract our ravish*d ears;
But old, the mind with inattention hears:
Patient permit the sadly pleasing strain;
Familiar now with grief, your tears refrain,
And in the public woe forget your own;
You weep not for a perish*d lord alone.
What Greeks new wandering in the Stygian gloom,
Wish your Ulysses shared an equal doom!
Your widow*d hours, apart, with female toil
And various labours of the loom beguile;
There rule, from palace-cares remote and free;
That care to man belongs, and most to me.*

Mature beyond his years, the queen admires
His sage reply, and with her train retires.
Then swelling sorrows burst their former bounds,
With echoing grief afresh the dome resounds;
Till Pallas, piteous of her plaintive cries,
In slumber closed her silver-streaming eyes.

Meantime, rekindled at the royal charms,
Tumultuous love each beating bosom warms;
Intemperate rage a wordy war began;
But bold Telemachus assumed the man.
*Instant (he cried) your female discord end,
Ye deedless boasters! and the song attend;
Obey that sweet compulsion, nor profane
With dissonance the smooth melodious strain.
Pacific now prolong the jovial feast;
But when the dawn reveals the rosy east,
I, to the peers assembled, shall propose
The firm resolve, I here in few disclose;
No longer live the cankers of my court;
All to your several states with speed resort;
Waste in wild riot what your land allows,
There ply the early feast, and late carouse.
But if, to honour lost, *tis still decreed
For you my bowl shall flow, my flock shall bleed;
Judge and revenge my right, impartial Jove!
By him and all the immortal thrones above
(A sacred oath), each proud oppressor slain,
Shall with inglorious gore this marble stain.*

Awed by the prince, thus haughty, bold, and young,
Rage gnaw*d the lip, and wonder chain*d the tongue.
Silence at length the gay Antinous broke,
Constrain*d a smile, and thus ambiguous spoke:
*What god to your untutor*d youth affords
This headlong torrent of amazing words?
May Jove delay thy reign, and cumber late
So bright a genius with the toils of state!*

*Those toils (Telemachus serene replies)
Have charms, with all their weight, t*allure the wise.
Fast by the throne obsequious fame resides,
And wealth incessant rolls her golden tides.
Nor let Antinous rage, if strong desire
Of wealth and fame a youthful bosom fire:
Elect by Jove, his delegate of sway,
With joyous pride the summons I*d obey.
Whene*er Ulysses roams the realm of night,
Should factious power dispute my lineal right,
Some other Greeks a fairer claim may plead;
To your pretence their title would precede.
At least, the sceptre lost, I still should reign
Sole o*er my vassals, and domestic train.*

To this Eurymachus: *To Heaven alone
Refer the choice to fill the vacant throne.
Your patrimonial stores in peace possess;
Undoubted, all your filial claim confess:
Your private right should impious power invade,
The peers of Ithaca would arm in aid.
But say, that stranger guest who late withdrew,
What and from whence? his name and lineage shew.
His grave demeanour and majestic grace
Speak him descended of no vulgar race:
Did he some loan of ancient right require,
Or came forerunner of your sceptr*d sire?*

*Oh son of Polybus!* the prince replies,
*No more my sire will glad these longing eyes;
The queen*s fond hope inventive rumour cheers,
Or vain diviners* dreams divert her fears.
That stranger-guest the Taphian realm obeys,
A realm defended with encircling seas.
Mentes, an ever-honour*d name, of old
High in Ulysses* social list enroll*d.*

Thus he, though conscious of the ethereal guest,
Answer*d evasive of the sly request.
Meantime the lyre rejoins the sprightly lay;
Love-dittied airs, and dance, conclude the day
But when the star of eve with golden light
Adorn*d the matron brow of sable night,
The mirthful train dispersing quit the court,
And to their several domes to rest resort.
A towering structure to the palace join*d;
To this his steps the thoughtful prince inclined:
In his pavilion there, to sleep repairs;
The lighted torch, the sage Euryclea bears
(Daughter of Ops, the just Pisenor*s son,
For twenty beeves by great Laertes won;
In rosy prime with charms attractive graced,
Honour*d by him, a gentle lord and chaste,
With dear esteem: too wise, with jealous strife
To taint the joys of sweet connubial life.
Sole with Telemachus her service ends,
A child she nursed him, and a man attends).
Whilst to his couch himself the prince address*d,
The duteous dame received the purple vest;
The purple vest with decent care disposed,
The silver ring she pull*d, the door reclosed,
The bolt, obedient to the silken cord,
To the strong staple*s inmost depth restored,
Secured the valves. There, wrapped in silent shade,
Pensive, the rules the goddess gave he weigh*d;
Stretch*d on the downy fleece, no rest he knows,
And in his raptured soul the vision glows.




BOOK II.


ARGUMENT.
THE COUNCIL OF ITHACA.


Telemachus in the assembly of the lords of Ithaca complains of the
injustice done him by the suitors, and insists upon their departure
from his palace; appealing to the princes, and exciting the people to
declare against them. The suitors endeavour to justify their stay, at
least till he shall send the queen to the court of Icarius her father;
which he refuses. There appears a prodigy of two eagles in the sky,
which an augur expounds to the ruin of the suitors. Telemachus then
demands a vessel to carry him to Pylos and Sparta, there to inquire of
his father*s fortunes. Pallas, in the shape of Mentor (an ancient
friend of Ulysses), helps him to a ship, assists him in preparing
necessaries for the voyage, and embarks with him that night; which
concludes the second day from the opening of the poem. The scene
continues in the palace of Ulysses, in Ithaca.


Now reddening from the dawn, the morning ray
Glow*d in the front of heaven, and gave the day
The youthful hero, with returning light,
Rose anxious from the inquietudes of night.
A royal robe he wore with graceful pride,
A two-edged falchion threaten*d by his side,
Embroider*d sandals glitter*d as he trod,
And forth he moved, majestic as a god.
Then by his heralds, restless of delay,
To council calls the peers: the peers obey.
Soon as in solemn form the assembly sate,
From his high dome himself descends in state.
Bright in his hand a ponderous javelin shined;
Two dogs, a faithful guard, attend behind;
Pallas with grace divine his form improves,
And gazing crowds admire him as he moves,

His father*s throne he fill*d; while distant stood
The hoary peers, and aged wisdom bow*d.

*Twas silence all. At last AEgyptius spoke;
AEgyptius, by his age and sorrow broke;
A length of days his soul with prudence crown*d,
A length of days had bent him to the ground.
His eldest hope in arms to Ilion came,
By great Ulysses taught the path to fame;
But (hapless youth) the hideous Cyclops tore
His quivering limbs, and quaff*d his spouting gore.
Three sons remain*d; to climb with haughty fires
The royal bed, Eurynomus aspires;
The rest with duteous love his griefs assuage,
And ease the sire of half the cares of age.
Yet still his Antiphus he loves, he mourns,
And, as he stood, he spoke and wept by turns,

*Since great Ulysses sought the Phrygian plains,
Within these walls inglorious silence reigns.
Say then, ye peers! by whose commands we meet?
Why here once more in solemn council sit?
Ye young, ye old, the weighty cause disclose:
Arrives some message of invading foes?
Or say, does high necessity of state
Inspire some patriot, and demand debate?
The present synod speaks its author wise;
Assist him, Jove, thou regent of the skies!*

He spoke. Telemachus with transport glows,
Embraced the omen, and majestic rose
(His royal hand the imperial sceptre sway*d);
Then thus, addressing to AEgyptius, said:

*Reverend old man! lo here confess*d he stands
By whom ye meet; my grief your care demands.
No story I unfold of public woes,
Nor bear advices of impending foes:
Peace the blest land, and joys incessant crown:
Of all this happy realm, I grieve alone.
For my lost sire continual sorrows spring,
The great, the good; your father and your king.
Yet more; our house from its foundation bows,
Our foes are powerful, and your sons the foes;
Hither, unwelcome to the queen, they come;
Why seek they not the rich Icarian dome?
If she must wed, from other hands require
The dowry: is Telemachus her sire?
Yet through my court the noise of revel rings,
And waste the wise frugality of kings.
Scarce all my herds their luxury suffice;
Scarce all my wine their midnight hours supplies.
Safe in my youth, in riot still they grow,
Nor in the helpless orphan dread a foe.
But come it will, the time when manhood grants
More powerful advocates than vain complaints.
Approach that hour! insufferable wrong
Cries to the gods, and vengeance sleeps too long.
Rise then, ye peers! with virtuous anger rise;
Your fame revere, but most the avenging skies.
By all the deathless powers that reign above,
By righteous Themis and by thundering Jove
(Themis, who gives to councils, or denies
Success; and humbles, or confirms the wise),
Rise in my aid! suffice the tears that flow
For my lost sire, nor add new woe to woe.
If e*er he bore the sword to strengthen ill,
Or, having power to wrong, betray*d the will,
On me, on me your kindled wrath assuage,
And bid the voice of lawless riot rage.
If ruin to your royal race ye doom,
Be you the spoilers, and our wealth consume.
Then might we hope redress from juster laws,
And raise all Ithaca to aid our cause:
But while your sons commit the unpunish*d wrong,
You make the arm of violence too strong.*

While thus he spoke, with rage and grief he frown*d,
And dash*d the imperial sceptre to the ground.
The big round tear hung trembling in his eye:
The synod grieved, and gave a pitying sigh,
Then silent sate*at length Antinous burns
With haughty rage, and sternly thus returns:

*O insolence of youth! whose tongue affords
Such railing eloquence, and war of words.
Studious thy country*s worthies to defame,
Thy erring voice displays thy mother*s shame.
Elusive of the bridal day, she gives
Fond hopes to all, and all with hopes deceives.
Did not the sun, through heaven*s wide azure roll*d,
For three long years the royal fraud behold?
While she, laborious in delusion, spread
The spacious loom, and mix*d the various thread:
Where as to life the wondrous figures rise,
Thus spoke the inventive queen, with artful sighs:

*Though cold in death Ulysses breathes no more,
Cease yet awhile to urge the bridal hour:
Cease, till to great Laertes I bequeath
A task of grief, his ornaments of death.
Lest when the Fates his royal ashes claim,
The Grecian matrons taint my spotless fame;
When he, whom living mighty realms obey*d,
Shall want in death a shroud to grace his shade.*

*Thus she: at once the generous train complies,
Nor fraud mistrusts in virtue*s fair disguise.
The work she plied; but, studious of delay,
By night reversed the labours of the day.
While thrice the sun his annual journey made,
The conscious lamp the midnight fraud survey*d;
Unheard, unseen, three years her arts prevail;
The fourth her maid unfolds the amazing tale.
We saw, as unperceived we took our stand,
The backward labours of her faithless hand.
Then urged, she perfects her illustrious toils;
A wondrous monument of female wiles!

*But you, O peers! and thou, O prince! give ear
(I speak aloud, that every Greek may hear):
Dismiss the queen; and if her sire approves
Let him espouse her to the peer she loves:
Bid instant to prepare the bridal train,
Nor let a race of princes wait in vain.
Though with a grace divine her soul is blest,
And all Minerva breathes within her breast,
In wondrous arts than woman more renown*d,
And more than woman with deep wisdom crown*d;
Though Tyro nor Mycene match her name,
Not great Alcmena (the proud boasts of fame);
Yet thus by heaven adorn*d, by heaven*s decree
She shines with fatal excellence, to thee:
With thee, the bowl we drain, indulge the feast,
Till righteous heaven reclaim her stubborn breast.
What though from pole to pole resounds her name!
The son*s destruction waits the mother*s fame:
For, till she leaves thy court, it is decreed,
Thy bowl to empty and thy flock to bleed.*

While yet he speaks, Telemachus replies:
*Ev*n nature starts, and what ye ask denies.
Thus, shall I thus repay a mother*s cares,
Who gave me life, and nursed my infant years!
While sad on foreign shores Ulysses treads.
Or glides a ghost with unapparent shades;
How to Icarius in the bridal hour
Shall I, by waste undone, refund the dower?
How from my father should I vengeance dread!
How would my mother curse my hated head!
And while in wrath to vengeful fiends she cries,
How from their hell would vengeful fiends arise!
Abhorr*d by all, accursed my name would grow,
The earth*s disgrace, and human-kind my foe.
If this displease, why urge ye here your stay?
Haste from the court, ye spoilers, haste away:
Waste in wild riot what your land allows,
There ply the early feast, and late carouse.
But if to honour lost, *tis still decreed
For you my bowl shall flow, my flocks shall bleed;
Judge, and assert my right, impartial Jove!
By him, and all the immortal host above
(A sacred oath), if heaven the power supply,
Vengeance I vow, and for your wrongs ye die.*

With that, two eagles from a mountain*s height
By Jove*s command direct their rapid flight;
Swift they descend, with wing to wing conjoin*d,
Stretch their broad plumes, and float upon the wind.
Above the assembled peers they wheel on high,
And clang their wings, and hovering beat the sky;
With ardent eyes the rival train they threat,
And shrieking loud denounce approaching fate.
They cuff, they tear; their cheeks and neck they rend,
And from their plumes huge drops of blood descend;
Then sailing o*er the domes and towers, they fly,
Full toward the east, and mount into the sky.

The wondering rivals gaze, with cares oppress*d,
And chilling horrors freeze in every breast,
Till big with knowledge of approaching woes,
The prince of augurs, Halitherses, rose:
Prescient he view*d the a*rial tracks, and drew
A sure presage from every wing that flew.

*Ye sons (he cried) of Ithaca, give ear;
Hear all! but chiefly you, O rivals! hear.
Destruction sure o*er all your heads impends
Ulysses comes, and death his steps attends.
Nor to the great alone is death decreed;
We and our guilty Ithaca must bleed.
Why cease we then the wrath of heaven to stay?
Be humbled all, and lead, ye great! the way.
For lo my words no fancied woes relate;
I speak from science and the voice of fate.

*When great Ulysses sought the Phrygian shores
To shake with war proud Ilion*s lofty towers,
Deeds then undone my faithful tongue foretold:
Heaven seal*d my words, and you those deeds behold.
I see (I cried) his woes, a countless train;
I see his friends o*erwhelm*d beneath the main;
How twice ten years from shore to shore he roams:
Now twice ten years are past, and now he comes!*

To whom Eurymachus**Fly, dotard fly,
With thy wise dreams, and fables of the sky.
Go prophesy at home, thy sons advise:
Here thou art sage in vain*I better read the skies
Unnumber*d birds glide through the a*rial way;
Vagrants of air, and unforeboding stray.
Cold in the tomb, or in the deeps below,
Ulysses lies; oh wert thou laid as low!
Then would that busy head no broils suggest,
For fire to rage Telemachus* breast,
From him some bribe thy venal tongue requires,
And interest, not the god, thy voice inspires.
His guideless youth, if thy experienced age
Mislead fallacious into idle rage,
Vengeance deserved thy malice shall repress.
And but augment the wrongs thou would*st redress,
Telemachus may bid the queen repair
To great Icarius, whose paternal care
Will guide her passion, and reward her choice
With wealthy dower, and bridal gifts of price.
Till she retires, determined we remain,
And both the prince and augur threat in vain:
His pride of words, and thy wild dream of fate,
Move not the brave, or only move their hate,
Threat on, O prince! elude the bridal day.
Threat on, till all thy stores in waste decay.
True, Greece affords a train of lovely dames,
In wealth and beauty worthy of our flames:
But never from this nobler suit we cease;
For wealth and beauty less than virtue please.*

To whom the youth: *Since then in vain I tell
My numerous woes, in silence let them dwell.
But Heaven, and all the Greeks, have heard my wrongs;
To Heaven, and all the Greeks, redress belongs;
Yet this I ask (nor be it ask*d in vain),
A bark to waft me o*er the rolling main,
The realms of Pyle and Sparta to explore,
And seek my royal sire from shore to shore;
If, or to fame his doubtful fate be known,
Or to be learn*d from oracles alone,
If yet he lives, with patience I forbear,
Till the fleet hours restore the circling year;
But if already wandering in the train
Of empty shades, I measure back the main,
Plant the fair column o*er the mighty dead,
And yield his consort to the nuptial bed.*

He ceased; and while abash*d the peers attend,
Mentor arose, Ulysses* faithful friend:
(When fierce in arms he sought the scenes of war,
*My friend (he cried), my palace be thy care;
Years roll*d on years my godlike sire decay,
Guard thou his age, and his behests obey.*)
Stern as he rose, he cast his eyes around,
That flash*d with rage; and as spoke, he frown*d,

*O never, never more let king be just,
Be mild in power, or faithful to his trust!
Let tyrants govern with an iron rod,
Oppress, destroy, and be the scourge of God;
Since he who like a father held his reign,
So soon forgot, was just and mild in vain!
True, while my friend is grieved, his griefs I share;
Yet now the rivals are my smallest care:
They for the mighty mischiefs they devise,
Ere long shall pay*their forfeit lives the price.
But against you, ye Greeks! ye coward train!
Gods! how my soul is moved with just disdain!
Dumb ye all stand, and not one tongue affords
His injured prince the little aid of words.*

While yet he spoke, Leocritus rejoined:
*O pride of words, and arrogance of mind!
Would*st thou to rise in arms the Greeks advise?
Join all your powers? in arms, ye Greeks, arise!
Yet would your powers in vain our strength oppose.
The valiant few o*ermatch a host of foes.
Should great Ulysses stern appear in arms,
While the bowl circles and the banquet warms;
Though to his breast his spouse with transport flies,
Torn from her breast, that hour, Ulysses dies.
But hence retreating to your domes repair.
To arm the vessel, Mentor! be thy care,
And Halitherses! thine: be each his friend;
Ye loved the father: go, the son attend.
But yet, I trust, the boaster means to stay
Safe in the court, nor tempt the watery way.*

Then, with a rushing sound the assembly bend
Diverse their steps: the rival rout ascend
The royal dome; while sad the prince explores
The neighbouring main, and sorrowing treads the shores.
There, as the waters o*er his hands he shed,
The royal suppliant to Minerva pray*d:

*O goddess! who descending from the skies
Vouchsafed thy presence to my wondering eyes,
By whose commands the raging deeps I trace,
And seek my sire through storms and rolling seas!
Hear from thy heavens above, O warrior maid!
Descend once more, propitious to my aid.
Without thy presence, vain is thy command:
Greece, and the rival train, thy voice withstand.*

Indulgent to his prayer, the goddess took
Sage Mentor*s form, and thus like Mentor spoke:

*O prince, in early youth divinely wise,
Born, the Ulysses of thy age to rise
If to the son the father*s worth descends,
O*er the wide wave success thy ways attends
To tread the walks of death he stood prepared;
And what he greatly thought, he nobly dared.
Were not wise sons descendant of the wise,
And did not heroes from brave heroes rise,
Vain were my hopes: few sons attain the praise
Of their great sires, and most their sires disgrace.
But since thy veins paternal virtue fires,
And all Penelope thy soul inspires,
Go, and succeed: the rivals* aims despise;
For never, never wicked man was wise.
Blind they rejoice, though now, ev*n now they fall;
Death hastes amain: one hour o*erwhelms them all!
And lo, with speed we plough the watery way;
My power shall guard thee, and my hand convey:
The winged vessel studious I prepare,
Through seas and realms companion of thy care.
Thou to the court ascend: and to the shores
(When night advances) bear the naval stores;
Bread, that decaying man with strength supplies,
And generous wine, which thoughtful sorrow flies.
Meanwhile the mariners, by my command,
Shall speed aboard, a valiant chosen band.
Wide o*er the bay, by vessel vessel rides;
The best I choose to waft then o*er the tides.*

She spoke: to his high dome the prince returns,
And, as he moves, with royal anguish mourns.
*Twas riot all, among the lawless train;
Boar bled by boar, and goat by goat lay slain.
Arrived, his hand the gay Antinous press*d,
And thus deriding, with a smile address*d:

*Grieve not, O daring prince! that noble heart;
Ill suits gay youth the stern heroic part.
Indulge the genial hour, unbend thy soul,
Leave thought to age, and drain the flowing bowl.
Studious to ease thy grief, our care provides
The bark, to waft thee o*er the swelling tides.*

*Is this (returns the prince) for mirth a time?
When lawless gluttons riot, mirth*s a crime;
The luscious wines, dishonour*d, lose their taste;
The song is noise, and impious is the feast.
Suffice it to have spent with swift decay
The wealth of kings, and made my youth a prey.
But now the wise instructions of the sage,
And manly thoughts inspired by manly age,
Teach me to seek redress for all my woe,
Here, or in Pyle*in Pyle, or here, your foe.
Deny your vessels, ye deny in vain:
A private voyager I pass the main.
Free breathe the winds, and free the billows flow;
And where on earth I live, I live your foe.*

He spoke and frown*d, nor longer deign*d to stay,
Sternly his hand withdrew, and strode away.

Meantime, o*er all the dome, they quaff, they feast,
Derisive taunts were spread from guest to guest,
And each in jovial mood his mate address*d:

*Tremble ye not, O friends, and coward fly,
Doom*d by the stern Telemachus to die?
To Pyle or Sparta to demand supplies,
Big with revenge, the mighty warrior flies;
Or comes from Ephyre with poisons fraught,
And kills us all in one tremendous draught!*

*Or who can say (his gamesome mate replies)
But, while the danger of the deeps he tries
He, like his sire, may sink deprived of breath,
And punish us unkindly by his death?
What mighty labours would he then create,
To seize his treasures, and divide his state,
The royal palace to the queen convey,
Or him she blesses in the bridal day!*

Meantime the lofty rooms the prince surveys,
Where lay the treasures of the Ithacian race:
Here ruddy brass and gold refulgent blazed;
There polished chests embroider*d vestures graced;
Here jars of oil breathed forth a rich perfume;
There casks of wine in rows adorn*d the dome
(Pure flavorous wine, by gods in bounty given
And worthy to exalt the feasts of heaven).
Untouch*d they stood, till, his long labours o*er,
The great Ulysses reach*d his native shore.
A double strength of bars secured the gates;
Fast by the door the wise Euryclea waits;
Euryclea, who great Ops! thy lineage shared,
And watch*d all night, all day, a faithful guard.

To whom the prince: *O thou whose guardian care
Nursed the most wretched king that breathes the air;
Untouch*d and sacred may these vessels stand,
Till great Ulysses views his native land.
But by thy care twelve urns of wine be fill*d;
Next these in worth, and firm these urns be seal*d;
And twice ten measures of the choicest flour
Prepared, ere yet descends the evening hour.
For when the favouring shades of night arise,
And peaceful slumbers close my mother*s eyes,
Me from our coast shall spreading sails convey,
To seek Ulysses through the watery way.*

While yet he spoke, she fill*d the walls with cries,
And tears ran trickling from her aged eyes.
*O whither, whither flies my son (she cried)
To realms; that rocks and roaring seas divide?
In foreign lands thy father*s days decay*d.
And foreign lands contain the mighty dead.
The watery way ill-fated if thou try,
All, all must perish, and by fraud you die!
Then stay, my, child! storms beat, and rolls the main,
Oh, beat those storms, and roll the seas in vain!*

*Far hence (replied the prince) thy fears be driven:
Heaven calls me forth; these counsels are of Heaven.
But, by the powers that hate the perjured, swear,
To keep my voyage from the royal ear,
Nor uncompell*d the dangerous truth betray,
Till twice six times descends the lamp of day,
Lest the sad tale a mother*s life impair,
And grief destroy what time awhile would spare.*

Thus he. The matron with uplifted eyes
Attests the all-seeing sovereign of the skies.
Then studious she prepares the choicest flour,
The strength of wheat and wines an ample store.
While to the rival train the prince returns,
The martial goddess with impatience burns;
Like thee, Telemachus, in voice and size,
With speed divine from street to street she flies,
She bids the mariners prepared to stand,
When night descends, embodied on the strand.
Then to No*mon swift she runs, she flies,
And asks a bark: the chief a bark supplies.

And now, declining with his sloping wheels,
Down sunk the sun behind the western hills
The goddess shoved the vessel from the shores,
And stow*d within its womb the naval stores,
Full in the openings of the spacious main
It rides; and now descends the sailor-train,

Next, to the court, impatient of delay.
With rapid step the goddess urged her way;
There every eye with slumberous chains she bound,
And dash*d the flowing goblet to the ground.
Drowsy they rose, with heavy fumes oppress*d,
Reel*d from the palace, and retired to rest.
Then thus, in Mentor*s reverend form array*d,
Spoke to Telemachus the martial maid.
*Lo! on the seas, prepared the vessel stands,
The impatient mariner thy speed demands.*
Swift as she spoke, with rapid pace she leads;
The footsteps of the deity he treads.
Swift to the shore they move along the strand;
The ready vessel rides, the sailors ready stand.

He bids them bring their stores; the attending train
Load the tall bark, and launch into the main,
The prince and goddess to the stern ascend;
To the strong stroke at once the rowers bend.
Full from the west she bids fresh breezes blow;
The sable billows foam and roar below.
The chief his orders gives; the obedient band
With due observance wait the chief*s command;
With speed the mast they rear, with speed unbind
The spacious sheet, and stretch it to the wind.
High o*er the roaring waves the spreading sails
Bow the tall mast, and swell before the gales;
The crooked keel the parting surge divides,
And to the stern retreating roll the tides.
And now they ship their oars, and crown with wine
The holy goblet to the powers divine:
Imploring all the gods that reign above,
But chief the blue-eyed progeny of Jove.

Thus all the night they stem the liquid way,
And end their voyage with the morning ray.




BOOK III.


ARGUMENT.
THE INTERVIEW OF TELEMACHUS AND NESTOR.


Telemachus, guided by Pallas in the shape of Mentor, arrives in the
morning at Pylos, where Nestor and his sons are sacrificing on the sea-
shore to Neptune. Telemachus declares the occasion of his coming: and
Nestor relates what passed in their return from Troy, how their fleets
were separated, and he never since heard of Ulysses. They discourse
concerning the death of Agamemnon, the revenge of Orestes, and the
injuries of the suitors. Nestor advises him to go to Sparta, and
inquire further of Menelaus. The sacrifice ending with the night,
Minerva vanishes from them in the form of an eagle: Telemachus is
lodged in the palace. The next morning they sacrifice a bullock to
Minerva; and Telemachus proceeds on his journey to Sparta, attended by
Pisistratus.
    The scene lies on the sea-shore of Pylos.


The sacred sun, above the waters raised,
Through heaven*s eternal brazen portals blazed;
And wide o*er earth diffused his cheering ray,
To gods and men to give the golden day.
Now on the coast of Pyle the vessel falls,
Before old Neleus* venerable walls.
There suppliant to the monarch of the flood,
At nine green theatres the Pylians stood,
Each held five hundred (a deputed train),
At each, nine oxen on the sand lay slain.
They taste the entrails, and the altars load
With smoking thighs, an offering to the god.
Full for the port the Ithacensians stand,
And furl their sails, and issue on the land.
Telemachus already press*d the shore;
Not first, the power of wisdom march*d before,
And ere the sacrificing throng he join*d,
Admonish*d thus his well-attending mind:

*Proceed, my son! this youthful shame expel;
An honest business never blush to tell.
To learn what fates thy wretched sire detain,
We pass*d the wide immeasurable main.
Meet then the senior far renown*d for sense
With reverend awe, but decent confidence:
Urge him with truth to frame his fair replies;
And sure he will; for wisdom never lies.*

*Oh tell me, Mentor! tell me, faithful guide
(The youth with prudent modesty replied),
How shall I meet, or how accost the sage,
Unskill*d in speech, nor yet mature of age?
Awful th*approach, and hard the task appears,
To question wisely men of riper years.*

To whom the martial goddess thus rejoin*d:
*Search, for some thoughts, thy own suggesting mind;
And others, dictated by heavenly power,
Shall rise spontaneous in the needful hour.
For nought unprosperous shall thy ways attend,
Born with good omens, and with heaven thy friend.*

She spoke, and led the way with swiftest speed;
As swift, the youth pursued the way she led;
and join*d the band before the sacred fire,
Where sate, encompass*d with his sons, the sire.
The youth of Pylos, some on pointed wood
Transfix*d the fragments, some prepared the food:
In friendly throngs they gather to embrace
Their unknown guests, and at the banquet place,
Pisistratus was first to grasp their hands,
And spread soft hides upon the yellow sands;
Along the shore the illustrious pair he led,
Where Nestor sate with youthful Thrasymed,
To each a portion of the feast he bore,
And held the golden goblet foaming o*er;
Then first approaching to the elder guest,
The latent goddess in these words address*d:
*Whoe*er thou art, whom fortune brings to keep
These rites of Neptune, monarch of the deep,
Thee first it fits, O stranger! to prepare
The due libation and the solemn prayer;
Then give thy friend to shed the sacred wine;
Though much thy younger, and his years like mine,
He too, I deem, implores the power divine;
For all mankind alike require their grace,
All born to want; a miserable race!*
He spake, and to her hand preferr*d the bowl;
A secret pleasure touch*d Athena*s soul,
To see the preference due to sacred age
Regarded ever by the just and sage.
Of Ocean*s king she then implores the grace.
*O thou! whose arms this ample globe embrace,
Fulfil our wish, and let thy glory shine
On Nestor first, and Nestor*s royal line;
Next grant the Pylian states their just desires,
Pleased with their hecatomb*s ascending fires;
Last, deign Telemachus and me to bless,
And crown our voyage with desired success.*

Thus she: and having paid the rite divine,
Gave to Ulysses* son the rosy wine.
Suppliant he pray*d. And now the victims dress*d
They draw, divide, and celebrate the feast.
The banquet done, the narrative old man,
Thus mild, the pleasing conference began:

*Now gentle guests! the genial banquet o*er,
It fits to ask ye, what your native shore,
And whence your race? on what adventure say,
Thus far you wander through the watery way?
Relate if business, or the thirst of gain,
Engage your journey o*er the pathless main
Where savage pirates seek through seas unknown
The lives of others, venturous of their own.*

Urged by the precepts by the goddess given,
And fill*d with confidence infused from Heaven,
The youth, whom Pallas destined to be wise
And famed among the sons of men, replies:
*Inquir*st thou, father! from what coast we came?
(Oh grace and glory of the Grecian name!)
From where high Ithaca o*erlooks the floods,
Brown with o*er-arching shades and pendent woods
Us to these shores our filial duty draws,
A private sorrow, not a public cause.
My sire I seek, where*er the voice of fame
Has told the glories of his noble name,
The great Ulysses; famed from shore to shore
For valour much, for hardy suffering more.
Long time with thee before proud Ilion*s wall
In arms he fought; with thee beheld her fall.
Of all the chiefs, this hero*s fate alone
Has Jove reserved, unheard of, and unknown;
Whether in fields by hostile fury slain,
Or sunk by tempests in the gulfy main?
Of this to learn, oppress*d with tender fears,
Lo, at thy knee his suppliant son appears.
If or thy certain eye, or curious ear,
Have learnt his fate, the whole dark story clear
And, oh! whate*er Heaven destined to betide,
Let neither flattery soothe, nor pity hide.
Prepared I stand: he was but born to try
The lot of man; to suffer, and to die.
Oh then, if ever through the ten years* war
The wise, the good Ulysses claim*d thy care;
If e*er he join*d thy council, or thy sword,
True in his deed, and constant to his word;
Far as thy mind through backward time can see
Search all thy stores of faithful memory:
*Tis sacred truth I ask, and ask of thee.*

To him experienced Nestor thus rejoin*d:
*O friend! what sorrows dost thou bring to mind!
Shall I the long, laborious scene review,
And open all the wounds of Greece anew?
What toils by sea! where dark in quest of prey
Dauntless we roved; Achilles led the way;
What toils by land! where mix*d in fatal fight
Such numbers fell, such heroes sunk to night;
There Ajax great, Achilles there the brave,
There wise Patroclus, fill an early grave:
There, too, my son*ah, once my best delight
Once swift of foot, and terrible in fight;
In whom stern courage with soft virtue join*d
A faultless body and a blameless mind;
Antilochus*What more can I relate?
How trace the tedious series of our fate?
Not added years on years my task could close,
The long historian of my country*s woes;
Back to thy native islands might*st thou sail,
And leave half-heard the melancholy tale.
Nine painful years on that detested shore;
What stratagems we form*d, what toils we bore!
Still labouring on, till scarce at last we found
Great Jove propitious, and our conquest crown*d.
Far o*er the rest thy mighty father shined,
In wit, in prudence, and in force of mind.
Art thou the son of that illustrious sire?
With joy I grasp thee, and with love admire.
So like your voices, and your words so wise,
Who finds thee younger must consult his eyes.
Thy sire and I were one; nor varied aught
In public sentence, or in private thought;
Alike to council or the assembly came,
With equal souls, and sentiments the same.
But when (by wisdom won) proud Ilion burn*d,
And in their ships the conquering Greeks return*d,
*Twas God*s high will the victors to divide,
And turn the event, confounding human pride;
Some he destroy*d, some scatter*d as the dust
(Not all were prudent, and not all were just).
Then Discord, sent by Pallas from above,
Stern daughter of the great avenger Jove,
The brother-kings inspired with fell debate;
Who call*d to council all the Achaian state,
But call*d untimely (not the sacred rite
Observed, nor heedful of the setting light,
Nor herald sword the session to proclaim),
Sour with debauch, a reeling tribe they came.
To these the cause of meeting they explain,
And Menelaus moves to cross the main;
Not so the king of men: he will*d to stay,
The sacred rites and hecatombs to pay,
And calm Minerva*s wrath. Oh blind to fate!
The gods not lightly change their love, or hate.
With ireful taunts each other they oppose,
Till in loud tumult all the Greeks arose.
Now different counsels every breast divide,
Each burns with rancour to the adverse side;
The unquiet night strange projects entertain*d
(So Jove, that urged us to our fate, ordain*d).
We with the rising morn our ships unmoor*d,
And brought our captives and our stores aboard;
But half the people with respect obey*d
The king of men, and at his bidding stay*d.
Now on the wings of winds our course we keep
(For God had smooth*d the waters of the deep);
For Tenedos we spread our eager oars,
There land, and pay due victims to the powers;
To bless our safe return, we join in prayer;
But angry Jove dispersed our vows in air,
And raised new discord. Then (so Heaven decreed)
Ulysses first and Nestor disagreed!
Wise as he was, by various counsels sway*d,
He there, though late, to please the monarch, stay*d.
But I, determined, stem the foamy floods,
Warn*d of the coming fury of the gods.
With us, Tydides fear*d, and urged his haste:
And Menelaus came, but came the last,
He join*d our vessels in the Lesbian bay,
While yet we doubted of our watery way;
If to the right to urge the pilot*s toil
(The safer road), beside the Psyrian isle;
Or the straight course to rocky Chios plough,
And anchor under Mimas* shaggy brow?
We sought direction of the power divine:
The god propitious gave the guiding sign;
Through the mid seas he bid our navy steer,
And in Euboea shun the woes we fear.
The whistling winds already waked the sky;
Before the whistling winds the vessels fly,
With rapid swiftness cut the liquid way,
And reach Gerestus at the point of day.
There hecatombs of bulls, to Neptune slain,
High-flaming please the monarch of the main.
The fourth day shone, when all their labours o*er,
Tydides* vessels touched the wish*d-for shore.
But I to Pylos scud before the gales,
The god still breathing on my swelling sails;
Separate from all, I safely landed here;
Their fates or fortunes never reach*d my ear.
Yet what I learn*d, attend; as here I sat,
And ask*d each voyager each hero*s fate;
Curious to know, and willing to relate.

*Safe reach*d the Myrmidons their native land,
Beneath Achilles* warlike son*s command.
Those, whom the heir of great Apollo*s art,
Brave Philoctetes, taught to wing the dart;
And those whom Idomen from Ilion*s plain
Had led, securely cross*d the dreadful main
How Agamemnon touch*d his Argive coast,
And how his life by fraud and force he lost,
And how the murderer, paid his forfeit breath;
What lands so distant from that scene of death
But trembling heard the fame? and heard, admire.
How well the son appeased his slaughter*d sire!
Ev*n to the unhappy, that unjustly bleed,
Heaven gives posterity, to avenge the deed.
So fell *gysthus; and mayest thou, my friend,
(On whom the virtues of thy sire descend,)
Make future times thy equal act adore,
And be what brave Orestes was before!*

The prudent youth replied: *O thou the grace
And lasting glory of the Grecian race!
Just was the vengeance, and to latest days
Shall long posterity resound the praise.
Some god this arm with equal prowess bless!
And the proud suitors shall its force confess;
Injurious men! who while my soul is sore
Of fresh affronts, are meditating more.
But Heaven denies this honour to my hand,
Nor shall my father repossess the land;
The father*s fortune never to return,
And the sad son*s to softer and to mourn!*
Thus he; and Nestor took the word: *My son,
Is it then true, as distant rumours run,
That crowds of rivals for thy mother*s charms
Thy palace fill with insults and alarms?
Say, is the fault, through tame submission, thine?
Or leagued against thee, do thy people join,
Moved by some oracle, or voice divine?
And yet who knows, but ripening lies in fate
An hour of vengeance for the afflicted state;
When great Ulysses shall suppress these harms,
Ulysses singly, or all Greece in arms.
But if Athena, war*s triumphant maid,
The happy son will as the father aid,
(Whose fame and safety was her constant care
In every danger and in every war:
Never on man did heavenly favour shine
With rays so strong, distinguish*d and divine,
As those with which Minerva mark*d thy sire)
So might she love thee, so thy soul inspire!
Soon should their hopes in humble dust be laid,
And long oblivion of the bridal bed.*

*Ah! no such hope (the prince with sighs replies)
Can touch my breast; that blessing Heaven denies.
Ev*n by celestial favour were it given,
Fortune or fate would cross the will of Heaven.*

*What words are these, and what imprudence thine?
(Thus interposed the martial maid divine)
Forgetful youth! but know, the Power above
With ease can save each object of his love;
Wide as his will, extends his boundless grace;
Nor lost in time nor circumscribed by place.
Happier his lot, who, many sorrows pass*d,
Long labouring gains his natal shore at last;
Than who, too speedy, hastes to end his life
By some stern ruffian, or adulterous wife.
Death only is the lot which none can miss,
And all is possible to Heaven but this.
The best, the dearest favourite of the sky,
Must taste that cup, for man is born to die.*

Thus check*d, replied Ulysses* prudent heir:
*Mentor, no more*the mournful thought forbear;
For he no more must draw his country*s breath,
Already snatch*d by fate, and the black doom of death!
Pass we to other subjects; and engage
On themes remote the venerable sage
(Who thrice has seen the perishable kind
Of men decay, and through three ages shined
Like gods majestic, and like gods in mind);
For much he knows, and just conclusions draws,
From various precedents, and various laws.
O son of Neleus! awful Nestor, tell
How he, the mighty Agamemnon, fell;
By what strange fraud *gysthus wrought, relate
(By force he could not) such a hero*s fate?
Live Menelaus not in Greece? or where
Was then the martial brother*s pious care?
Condemn*d perhaps some foreign shore to tread;
Or sure *gysthus had not dared the deed.*

To whom the full of days: Illustrious youth,
Attend (though partly thou hast guess*d) the truth.
For had the martial Menelaus found
The ruffian breathing yet on Argive ground;
Nor earth had bid his carcase from the skies,
Nor Grecian virgins shriek*d his obsequies,
But fowls obscene dismember*d his remains,
And dogs had torn him on the naked plains.
While us the works of bloody Mars employ*d,
The wanton youth inglorious peace enjoy*d:
He stretch*d at ease in Argos* calm recess
(Whose stately steeds luxuriant pastures bless),
With flattery*s insinuating art
Soothed the frail queen, and poison*d all her heart.
At first, with worthy shame and decent pride,
The royal dame his lawless suit denied.
For virtue*s image yet possess*d her mind.
Taught by a master of the tuneful kind;
Atrides, parting for the Trojan war,
Consign*d the youthful consort to his care.
True to his charge, the bard preserved her long
In honour*s limits; such the power of song.
But when the gods these objects of their hate
Dragg*d to destruction by the links of fate;
The bard they banish*d from his native soil,
And left all helpless in a desert isle;
There he, the sweetest of the sacred train,
Sung dying to the rocks, but sung in vain.
Then virtue was no more; her guard away,
She fell, to lust a voluntary prey.
Even to the temple stalk*d the adulterous spouse,
With impious thanks, and mockery of the vows,
With images, with garments, and with gold;
And odorous fumes from loaded altars roll*d.

*Meantime from flaming Troy we cut the way
With Menelaus, through the curling sea.
But when to Sunium*s sacred point we came,
Crown*d with the temple of the Athenian dame;
Atride*s pilot, Phrontes, there expired
(Phrontes, of all the songs of men admired
To steer the bounding bark with steady toil,
When the storm thickens, and the billows boil);
While yet he exercised the steerman*s art,
Apollo touch*d him with his gentle dart;
Even with the rudder in his hand, he fell.
To pay whole honours to the shades of hell,
We check*d our haste, by pious office bound,
And laid our old companion in the ground.
And now the rites discharged, our course we keep
Far on the gloomy bosom of the deep:
Soon as Malae*s misty tops arise,
Sudden the Thunderer blackens all the skies,
And the winds whistle, and the surges roll
Mountains on mountains, and obscure the pole.
The tempest scatters, and divides our fleet;
Part, the storm urges on the coast of Crete,
Where winding round the rich Cydonian plain,
The streams of Jardan issue to the main.
There stands a rock, high, eminent and steep,
Whose shaggy brow o*erhangs the shady deep,
And views Gortyna on the western side;
On this rough Auster drove the impetuous tide:
With broken force the billows roll*d away,
And heaved the fleet into the neighb*ring bay.
Thus saved from death, they gain*d the Ph*stan shores,
With shatter*d vessels and disabled oars;
But five tall barks the winds and water toss*d,
Far from their fellows, on the *gyptian coast.
There wander*d Menelaus through foreign shores
Amassing gold, and gathering naval stores;
While cursed *gysthus the detested deed
By fraud fulfilled, and his great brother bled.
Seven years, the traitor rich Mycenae sway*d,
And his stern rule the groaning land obey*d;
The eighth, from Athens to his realm restored,
Orestes brandish*d the avenging sword,
Slew the dire pair, and gave to funeral flame
The vile assassin and adulterous dame.
That day, ere yet the bloody triumphs cease,
Return*d Atrides to the coast of Greece,
And safe to Argos port his navy brought,
With gifts of price and ponderous treasure fraught.
Hence warn*d, my son, beware! nor idly stand
Too long a stranger to thy native land;
Lest heedless absence wear thy wealth away,
While lawless feasters in thy palace away;
Perhaps may seize thy realm, and share the spoil;
And though return, with disappointed toil,
From thy vain journey, to a rifled isle.
However, my friend, indulge one labour more,
And seek Atrides on the Spartan shore.
He, wandering long a wider circle made,
And many-languaged nations has survey*d:
And measured tracks unknown to other ships,
Amid the monstrous wonders of the deeps,
(A length of ocean and unbounded sky.
Which scarce the sea-fowl in a year o*erfly);
Go then; to Sparta take the watery way,
Thy ship and sailors but for orders stay;
Or, if my land then choose thy course to bend,
My steeds, my chariots, and my songs, attend;
Thee to Atrides they shall safe convey,
Guides of thy road, companions of thy way.
Urge him with truth to frame his wise replies,
And sure he will; for Menelaus is wise.*
Thus while he speaks the ruddy sun descends,
And twilight grey her evening shade extends.
Then thus the blue-eyed maid: *O full of days!
Wise are thy words, and just are all thy ways.
Now immolate the tongues, and mix the wine,
Sacred to Neptune and the powers divine,
The lamp of day is quench*d beneath the deep,
And soft approach the balmy hours of sleep;
Nor fits it to prolong the heavenly feast,
Timeless, indecent, but retire to rest.*

So spake Jove*s daughter, the celestial maid,
The sober train attended and obey*d.
The sacred heralds on their hands around
Pour*d the full urns; the youths the goblets crown*d;
From bowl to bowl the homely beverage flows;
While to the final sacrifice they rose.
The tongues they cast upon the fragrant flame,
And pour, above, the consecrated stream.
And now, their thirst by copious draughts allay*d,
The youthful hero and the Athenian maid
Propose departure from the finish*d rite,
And in their hollow bark to pass the night;
But this hospitable sage denied,
*Forbid it, Jove! and all the gods! (he cried),
Thus from my walls and the much-loved son to send
Of such a hero, and of such a friend!
Me, as some needy peasant, would ye leave,
Whom Heaven denies the blessing to relieve?
Me would ye leave, who boast imperial sway,
When beds of royal state invite your stay?
No*long as life this mortal shall inspire,
Or as my children imitate their sire.
Here shall the wandering stranger find his home,
And hospitable rites adorn the dome.*

*Well hast thou spoke (the blue-eyed maid replies),
Beloved old man! benevolent as wise.
Be the kind dictates of thy heart obey*d,
And let thy words Telemachus persuade:
He to thy palace shall thy steps pursue;
I to the ship, to give the orders due,
Prescribe directions and confirm the crew.
For I alone sustain their naval cares,
Who boast experience from these silver hairs;
All youths the rest, whom to this journey move
Like years, like tempers, and their prince*s love
There in the vessel shall I pass the night;
And, soon as morning paints the fields of light,
I go to challenge from the Caucons bold
A debt, contracted in the days of old,
But this, thy guest, received with friendly care
Let thy strong coursers swift to Sparta bear;
Prepare thy chariot at the dawn of day,
And be thy son companion of his way.*

Then, turning with the word, Minerva flies,
And soars an eagle through the liquid skies.
Vision divine! the throng*d spectators gaze
In holy wonder fix*d, and still amaze.
But chief the reverend sage admired; he took
The hand of young Telemachus, and spoke:
*Oh, happy youth! and favoured of the skies,
Distinguished care of guardian deities!
Whose early years for future worth engage,
No vulgar manhood, no ignoble age.
For lo! none other of the course above,
Then she, the daughter of almighty Jove,
Pallas herself, the war-triumphant maid;
Confess*d is thine, as once thy father*s aid.
So guide me, goddess! so propitious shine
On me, my consort, and my royal line!
A yearling bullock to thy name shall smoke,
Untamed, unconscious of the galling yoke,
With ample forehead, and yet tender horns,
Whose budding honours ductile gold adorns.*

Submissive thus the hoary sire preferr*d
His holy vow: the favouring goddess heard.
Then, slowly rising, o*er the sandy space
Precedes the father, follow*d by his race,
(A long procession) timely marching home
In comely order to the regal dome.
There when arrived, on thrones around him placed,
His sons and grandsons the wide circle graced.
To these the hospitable sage, in sign
Of social welcome, mix*d the racy wine
(Late from the mellowing cask restored to light,
By ten long years refined, and rosy bright).
To Pallas high the foaming bowl he crown*d,
And sprinkled large libations on the ground.
Each drinks a full oblivion of his cares,
And to the gifts of balmy sleep repairs.
Deep in a rich alcove the prince was laid,
And slept beneath the pompous colonnade;
Fast by his side Pisistratus was spread
(In age his equal) on a splendid bed:
But in an inner court, securely closed,
The reverend Nestor and his queen reposed.

When now Aurora, daughter of the dawn,
With rosy lustre purpled o*er the lawn,
The old man early rose, walk*d forth, and sate
On polish*d stone before his palace gate;
With unguents smooth the lucid marble shone,
Where ancient Neleus sate, a rustic throne;
But he descending to the infernal shade,
Sage Nestor fill*d it, and the sceptre sway*d.
His sons around him mild obeisance pay,
And duteous take the orders of the day.
First Echephron and Stratius quit their bed;
Then Perseus, Aretus, and Thrasymed;
The last Pisistratus arose from rest:
They came, and near him placed the stranger-guest.
To these the senior thus declared his will:
*My sons! the dictates of your sire fulfil.
To Pallas, first of gods, prepare the feast,
Who graced our rites, a more than mortal guest
Let one, despatchful, bid some swain to lead
A well-fed bullock from the grassy mead;
One seek the harbour where the vessels moor,
And bring thy friends, Telemachus! ashore
(Leave only two the galley to attend);
Another Laerceus must we send,
Artist devine, whose skilful hands infold
The victim*s horn with circumfusile gold.
The rest may here the pious duty share,
And bid the handmaids for the feast prepare,
The seats to range, the fragrant wood to bring,
And limpid waters from the living spring.*

He said, and busy each his care bestow*d;
Already at the gates the bullock low*d,
Already came the Ithacensian crew,
The dexterous smith the tools already drew;
His ponderous hammer and his anvil sound,
And the strong tongs to turn the metal round.
Nor was Minerva absent from the rite,
She view*d her honours, and enjoyed the sight,
With reverend hand the king presents the gold,
Which round the intorted horns the gilder roll*d.
So wrought as Pallas might with pride behold.
Young Aretus from forth his bridal bower
Brought the full laver, o*er their hands to pour,
And canisters of consecrated flour.
Stratius and Echephron the victim led;
The axe was held by warlike Thrasymed,
In act to strike; before him Perseus stood,
The vase extending to receive the blood.
The king himself initiates to the power:
Scatters with quivering hand the sacred flour,
And the stream sprinkles; from the curling brows
The hair collected in the fire he throws.
Soon as due vows on every part were paid,
And sacred wheat upon the victim laid,
Strong Thrasymed discharged the speeding blow
Full on his neck, and cut the nerves in two.
Down sunk the heavy beast; the females round
Maids, wives, and matrons, mix a shrilling sound.
Nor scorned the queen the holy choir to join
(The first born she, of old Clymenus* line:
In youth by Nestor loved, of spotless fame.
And loved in age, Eurydice her name).
From earth they rear him, struggling now with death;
And Nestor*s youngest stops the vents of breath.
The soul for ever flies; on all sides round
Streams the black blood, and smokes upon the ground
The beast they then divide and disunite
The ribs and limbs, observant of the rite:
On these, in double cauls involved with art,
The choicest morsels lay from every part.
The sacred sage before his altar stands,
Turns the burnt offering with his holy hands,
And pours the wine, and bids the flames aspire;
The youth with instruments surround the fire.
The thighs now sacrificed, and entrails dress*d,
The assistants part, transfix, and broil the rest
While these officious tend the rites divine,
The last fair branch of the Nestorean line,
Sweet Polycaste, took the pleasing toil
To bathe the prince, and pour the fragrant oil.
O*er his fair limbs a flowery vest he threw,
And issued, like a god, to mortal view.
His former seat beside the king he found
(His people*s father with his peers around);
All placed at ease the holy banquet join,
And in the dazzling goblet laughs the wine.

The rage of thirst and hunger now suppress*d,
The monarch turns him to his royal guest;
And for the promised journey bids prepare
The smooth hair*d horses, and the rapid car.
Observant of his word, the word scarce spoke,
The sons obey, and join them to the yoke.
Then bread and wine a ready handmaid brings,
And presents, such as suit the state of kings.
The glittering seat Telemachus ascends;
His faithful guide Pisistratus attends;
With hasty hand the ruling reins he drew;
He lash*d the coursers, and the coursers flew.
Beneath the bounding yoke alike they hold
Their equal pace, and smoked along the field.
The towers of Pylos sink, its views decay,
Fields after fields fly back, till close of day;
Then sunk the sun, and darken*d all the way.

To Pherae now, Diocleus* stately seat
(Of Alpheus* race), the weary youths retreat.
His house affords the hospitable rite,
And pleased they sleep (the blessing of the night).
But when Aurora, daughter of the dawn,
With rosy lustre purpled o*er the lawn,
Again they mount, their journey to renew,
And from the sounding portico they flew.
Along the waving fields their way they hold
The fields receding as their chariot roll*d;
Then slowly sunk the ruddy globe of light,
And o*er the shaded landscape rush*d the night.




BOOK IV.


ARGUMENT.
THE CONFERENCE WITH MENELAUS.


Telemachus with Pisistratus arriving at Sparta, is hospitably received
by Menelaus to whom he relates the cause of his coming, and learns from
him many particulars of what befell the Greeks since the destruction of
Troy. He dwells more at large upon the prophecies of Proteus to him in
his return; from which he acquaints Telemachus that Ulysses is detained
in the island of Calypso.
    In the meantime the suitors consult to destroy Telemachus on the
    voyage home. Penelope is apprised of this; but comforted in a dream
    by Pallas, in the shape of her sister Iphthima.


And now proud Sparta with their wheels resounds,
Sparta whose walls a range of hills surrounds;
At the fair dome the rapid labour ends;
Where sate Atrides *midst his bridal friends,
With double vows invoking Hymen*s power,
To bless his son*s and daughter*s nuptial hour.

That day, to great Achilles* son resign*d,
Hermione, the fairest of her kind,
Was sent to crown the long-protracted joy,
Espoused before the final doom of Troy;
With steeds and gilded cars, a gorgeous train
Attend the nymphs to Phthia*s distant reign.
Meanwhile at home, to Megapenthe*s bed
The virgin choir Alector*s daughter led.
Brave Megapenthes from a stolen amour
To great Atrides* age his handmaid bore;
To Helen*s bed the gods alone assign
Hermione, to extend the regal line;
On whom a radiant pomp of Graces wait,
Resembling Venus in attractive state.

While this gay friendly troop the king surround,
With festival and mirth the roofs resound;
A bard amid the joyous circle sings
High airs attemper*d to the vocal strings;
Whilst warbling to the varied strain, advance
Two sprightly youths to form the bounding dance,
*Twas then, that issuing through the palace gate,
The splendid car roll*d slow in regal state:
On the bright eminence young Nestor shone,
And fast beside him great Ulysses* son;
Grave Eteoneus saw the pomp appear,
And speeding, thus address*d the royal ear;

*Two youths approach, whose semblant features prove
Their blood devolving from the source of Jove
Is due reception deign*d, or must they bend
Their doubtful course to seek a distant friend?*

*Insensate! (with a sigh the king replies,)
Too long, misjudging, have I thought thee wise
But sure relentless folly steels thy breast,
Obdurate to reject the stranger-guest;
To those dear hospitable rites a foe,
Which in my wanderings oft relieved my woe;
Fed by the bounty of another*s board,
Till pitying Jove my native realm restored*
Straight be the coursers from the car released,
Conduct the youths to grace the genial feast.*

The seneschal, rebuked, in haste withdrew;
With equal haste a menial train pursue:
Part led the coursers, from the car enlarged,
Each to a crib with choicest grain surcharged;
Part in a portico, profusely graced
With rich magnificence, the chariot placed;
Then to the dome the friendly pair invite,
Who eye the dazzling roofs with vast delight;
Resplendent as the blaze of summer noon,
Or the pale radiance of the midnight moon.
From room to room their eager view they bend
Thence to the bath, a beauteous pile, descend;
Where a bright damsel train attends the guests
With liquid odours, and embroider*d vests.
Refresh*d, they wait them to the bower of state,
Where, circled with his peers, Atrides sate;
Throned next the king, a fair attendant brings
The purest product of the crystal springs;
High on a massy vase of silver mould,
The burnish*d laver flames with solid gold,
In solid gold the purple vintage flows,
And on the board a second banquet rose.
When thus the king, with hospitable port;
*Accept this welcome to the Spartan court:
The waste of nature let the feast repair,
Then your high lineage and your names declare;
Say from what sceptred ancestry ye claim,
Recorded eminent in deathless fame,
For vulgar parents cannot stamp their race
With signatures of such majestic grace.*

Ceasing, benevolent he straight assigns
The royal portion of the choicest chines
To each accepted friend; with grateful haste
They share the honours of the rich repast.
Sufficed, soft whispering thus to Nestor*s son,
His head reclined, young Ithacus begun:

*View*st thou unmoved, O ever-honour*d most!
These prodigies of art, and wondrous cost!
Above, beneath, around the palace shines
The sunless treasure of exhausted mines;
The spoils of elephants the roofs inlay,
And studded amber darts the golden ray;
Such, and not nobler, in the realms above
My wonder dictates is the dome of Jove.*

The monarch took the word, and grave replied:
*Presumptuous are the vaunts, and vain the pride
Of man, who dares in pomp with Jove contest,
Unchanged, immortal, and supremely blest!
With all my affluence, when my woes are weigh*d,
Envy will own the purchase dearly paid.
For eight slow-circling years, by tempests toss*d,
From Cypress to the far Phoenician coast
(Sidon the capital), I stretch*d my toil
Through regions fatten*d with the flows of Nile.
Next Aethiopia*s utmost bound explore,
And the parch*d borders of the Arabian shore;
Then warp my voyage on the southern gales,
O*er the warm Lybian wave to spread my sails;
That happy clime, where each revolving year
The teeming ewes a triple offspring bear;
And two fair crescents of translucent horn
The brows of all their young increase adorn:
The shepherd swains, with sure abundance blest,
On the fat flock and rural dainties feast;
Nor want of herbage makes the dairy fail,
But every season fills the foaming pail.
Whilst, heaping unwash*d wealth, I distant roam,
The best of brothers, at his natal home,
By the dire fury of a traitress wife,
Ends the sad evening of a stormy life;
Whence, with incessant grief my soul annoy*d,
These riches are possess*d, but not enjoy*d!
My wars, the copious theme of every tongue,
To you your fathers have recorded long.
How favouring Heaven repaid my glorious toils
With a sack*d palace, and barbaric spoils.
Oh! had the gods so large a boon denied
And life, the just equivalent supplied
To those brave warriors, who, with glory fired
Far from their country, in my cause expired!
Still in short intervals of pleasing woe.
Regardful of the friendly dues I owe,
I to the glorious dead, for ever dear!
Indulge the tribute of a grateful tear.
But oh! Ulysses*deeper than the rest
That sad idea wounds my anxious breast!
My heart bleeds fresh with agonizing pain;
The bowl and tasteful viands tempt in vain;
Nor sleep*s soft power can close my streaming eyes,
When imaged to my soul his sorrows rise.
No peril in my cause he ceased to prove,
His labours equall*d only by my love:
And both alike to bitter fortune born,
For him to suffer, and for me to mourn!
Whether he wanders on some friendly coast,
Or glides in Stygian gloom a pensive ghost,
No fame reveals; but, doubtful of his doom,
His good old sire with sorrow to the tomb
Declines his trembling steps; untimely care
Withers the blooming vigour of his heir;
And the chaste partner of his bed and throne
Wastes all her widow*d hours in tender moan.*

While thus pathetic to the prince he spoke,
From the brave youth the streaming passion broke;
Studious to veil the grief, in vain repress*d,
His face he shrouded with his purple vest.
The conscious monarch pierced the coy disguise,
And view*d his filial love with vast surprise:
Dubious to press the tender theme, or wait
To hear the youth inquire his father*s fate.
In this suspense bright Helen graced the room;
Before her breathed a gale of rich perfume.
So moves, adorn*d with each attractive grace,
The silver shafted goddess of the chase!
The seat of majesty Adraste brings,
With art illustrious, for the pomp of kings;
To spread the pall (beneath the regal chair)
Of softest wool, is bright Alcippe*s care.
A silver canister, divinely wrought,
In her soft hands the beauteous Phylo brought;
To Sparta*s queen of old the radiant vase
Alcandra gave, a pledge of royal grace;
For Polybus her lord (whose sovereign sway
The wealthy tribes of Pharian Thebes obey),
When to that court Atrides came, caress*d
With vast munificence the imperial guest:
Two lavers from the richest ore refined,
With silver tripods, the kind host assign*d;
And bounteous from the royal treasure told
Ten equal talents of refulgent gold.
Alcandra, consort of his high command,
A golden distaff gave to Helen*s hand;
And that rich vase, with living sculpture wrought,
Which heap*d with wool the beauteous Phylo brought
The silken fleece, impurpled for the loom,
Rivall*d the hyacinth in vernal bloom.
The sovereign seat then Jove born Helen press*d,
And pleasing thus her sceptred lord address*d:

*Who grace our palace now, that friendly pair,
Speak they their lineage, or their names declare?
Uncertain of the truth, yet uncontroll*d,
Hear me the bodings of my breast unfold.
With wonder wrapp*d on yonder check I trace
The feature of the Ulyssean race:
Diffused o*er each resembling line appear,
In just similitude, the grace and air
Of young Telemachus! the lovely boy,
Who bless*d Ulysses with a father*s joy,
What time the Greeks combined their social arms,
To avenge the stain of my ill-fated charms!*

*Just is thy thought, (the king assenting cries,)
Methinks Ulysses strikes my wondering eyes;
Full shines the father in the filial frame,
His port, his features, and his shape the same;
Such quick regards his sparkling eyes bestow;
Such wavy ringlets o*er his shoulders flow
And when he heard the long disastrous store
Of cares, which in my cause Ulysses bore;
Dismay*d, heart-wounded with paternal woes,
Above restraint the tide of sorrow rose;
Cautious to let the gushing grief appear,
His purple garment veil*d the falling tear.*

*See there confess*d (Pisistratus replies)
The genuine worth of Ithacus the wise!
Of that heroic sire the youth is sprung,
But modest awe hath chain*d his timorous tongue.
Thy voice, O king! with pleased attention heard,
Is like the dictates of a god revered.
With him, at Nestor*s high command, I came,
Whose age I honour with a parent*s name.
By adverse destiny constrained to sue
For counsel and redress, he sues to you
Whatever ill the friendless orphan bears,
Bereaved of parents in his infant years,
Still must the wrong*d Telemachus sustain,
If, hopeful of your aid, he hopes in vain;
Affianced in your friendly power alone,
The youth would vindicate the vacant throne.*

*Is Sparta blest, and these desiring eyes
View my friend*s son? (the king exalting cries;)
Son of my friend, by glorious toils approved,
Whose sword was sacred to the man he loved;
Mirror of constant faith, revered and mourn*d*
When Troy was ruin*d, had the chief return*d,
No Greek an equal space had ere possess*d,
Of dear affection, in my grateful breast.
I, to confirm the mutual joys we shared,
For his abode a capital prepared;
Argos, the seat of sovereign rule, I chose;
Fair in the plan the future palace rose,
Where my Ulysses and his race might reign,
And portion to his tribes the wide domain,
To them my vassals had resign*d a soil,
With teeming plenty to reward their toil.
There with commutual zeal we both had strove
In acts of dear benevolence and love:
Brothers in peace, not rivals in command,
And death alone dissolved the friendly band!
Some envious power the blissful scene destroys;
Vanish*d are all the visionary joys;
The soul of friendship to my hope is lost,
Fated to wander from his natal coast!*

He ceased; a gush of grief began to rise:
Fast streams a tide from beauteous Helen*s eyes;
Fast for the sire the filial sorrows flow;
The weeping monarch swells the mighty woe;
Thy cheeks, Pisistratus, the tears bedew,
While pictured so thy mind appear*d in view,
Thy martial brother; on the Phrygian plain
Extended pale, by swarthy Memnon slain!
But silence soon the son of Nestor broke,
And melting with fraternal pity, spoke:

*Frequent, O king, was Nestor wont to raise
And charm attention with thy copious praise;
To crowd thy various gifts, the sage assign*d
The glory of a firm capacious mind;
With that superior attribute control
This unavailing impotence of soul,
Let not your roof with echoing grief resound,
Now for the feast the friendly bowl is crown*d;
But when, from dewy shade emerging bright,
Aurora streaks the sky with orient light,
Let each deplore his dead; the rites of woe
Are all, alas! the living can bestow;
O*er the congenial dust enjoin*d to shear
The graceful curl, and drop the tender tear.
Then, mingling in the mournful pomp with you,
I*ll pay my brother*s ghost a warrior*s due,
And mourn the brave Antilochus, a name
Not unrecorded in the rolls of fame;
With strength and speed superior form*d, in fight
To face the foe, or intercept his flight;
Too early snatch*d by fate ere known to me!
I boast a witness of his worth in thee.*

*Young and mature! (the monarch thus rejoins,)
In thee renew*d the soul of Nestor shines;
Form*d by the care of that consummate sage,
In early bloom an oracle of age.
Whene*er his influence Jove vouchsafes to shower,
To bless the natal and the nuptial hour;
From the great sire transmissive to the race,
The boon devolving gives distinguish*d grace.
Such, happy Nestor! was thy glorious doom,
Around thee, full of years, thy offspring bloom.
Expert of arms, and prudent in debate;
The gifts of Heaven to guard thy hoary state.
But now let each becalm his troubled breast,
Wash, and partake serene the friendly feast.
To move thy suit, Telemachus, delay,
Till heaven*s revolving lamp restores the day.*

He said, Asphalion swift the laver brings;
Alternate, all partake the grateful springs;
Then from the rites of purity repair,
And with keen gust the savoury viands share.
Meantime, with genial joy to warm the soul,
Bright Helen mix*d a mirth inspiring bowl;
Temper*d with drugs of sovereign use, to assuage
The boiling bosom of tumultuous rage;
To clear the cloudy front of wrinkled Care,
And dry the tearful sluices of Despair;
Charm*d with that virtuous draught, the exalted mind
All sense of woe delivers to the wind.
Though on the blazing pile his parent lay,
Or a loved brother groan*d his life away,
Or darling son, oppress*d by ruffian force,
Fell breathless at his feet, a mangled corse;
From morn to eve, impassive and serene,
The man entranced would view the dreadful scene.
These drugs, so friendly to the joys of life,
Bright Helen learn*d from Thone*s imperial wife;
Who sway*d the sceptre, where prolific Nile
With various simples clothes the fatten*d soil.
With wholesome herbage mix*d, the direful bane
Of vegetable venom taints the plain;
From Paeon sprung, their patron-god imparts
To all the Pharian race his healing arts.
The beverage now prepared to inspire the feast,
The circle thus the beauteous queen addressed:

*Throned in omnipotence, supremest Jove
Tempers the fates of human race above;
By the firm sanction of his sovereign will,
Alternate are decreed our good and ill.
To feastful mirth be this white hour assign*d.
And sweet discourse, the banquet of the mind
Myself, assisting in the social joy,
Will tell Ulysses* bold exploit in Troy,
Sole witness of the deed I now declare
Speak you (who saw) his wonders in the war.

*Seam*d o*er with wounds, which his own sabre gave,
In the vile habit of a village slave,
The foe deceived, he pass*d the tented plain,
In Troy to mingle with the hostile train.
In this attire secure from searching eyes,
Till happily piercing through the dark disguise,
The chief I challenged; he, whose practised wit
Knew all the serpent mazes of deceit,
Eludes my search; but when his form I view*d
Fresh from the bath, with fragrant oils renew*d,
His limbs in military purple dress*d,
Each brightening grace the genuine Greek confess*d.
A previous pledge of sacred faith obtain*d,
Till he the lines and Argive fleet regain*d,
To keep his stay conceal*d; the chief declared
The plans of war against the town prepared.
Exploring then the secrets of the state,
He learn*d what best might urge the Dardan fate;
And, safe returning to the Grecian host,
Sent many a shade to Pluto*s dreary coast.
Loud grief resounded through the towers of Troy,
But my pleased bosom glow*d with secret joy:
For then, with dire remorse and conscious shame
I view*d the effects of that disastrous flame,
Which, kindled by the imperious queen of love,
Constrain*d me from my native realm to rove:
And oft in bitterness of soul deplored
My absent daughter and my dearer lord;
Admired among the first of human race,
For every gift of mind and manly grace.*

*Right well (replied the king) your speech displays
The matchless merit of the chief you praise:
Heroes in various climes myself have found,
For martial deeds and depth of thought renown*d;
But Ithacus, unrivall*d in his claim,
May boast a title to the loudest fame:
In battle calm he guides the rapid storm,
Wise to resolve, and patient to perform.
What wondrous conduct in the chief appear*d,
When the vast fabric of the steed we rear*d!
Some demon, anxious for the Trojan doom,
Urged you with great Deiphobus to come,
To explore the fraud; with guile opposed to guile.
Slow-pacing thrice around the insidious pile,
Each noted leader*s name you thrice invoke,
Your accent varying as their spouses spoke!
The pleasing sounds each latent warrior warm*d,
But most Tydides* and my heart alarm*d:
To quit the steed we both impatient press
Threatening to answer from the dark recess.
Unmoved the mind of Ithacus remain*d;
And the vain ardours of our love restrain*d;
But Anticlus, unable to control,
Spoke loud the language of his yearning soul:
Ulysses straight, with indignation fired
(For so the common care of Greece required),
Firm to his lips his forceful hands applied,
Till on his tongue the fluttering murmurs died.
Meantime Minerva, from the fraudful horse,
Back to the court of Priam bent your course.*

*Inclement fate! (Telemachus replies,)
Frail is the boasted attribute of wise:
The leader mingling with the vulgar host,
Is in the common mass of matter lost!
But now let sleep the painful waste repair
Of sad reflection and corroding care.*
He ceased; the menial fair that round her wait,
At Helen*s beck prepare the room of state;
Beneath an ample portico they spread
The downy fleece to form the slumberous bed;
And o*er soft palls of purple grain unfold
Rich tapestry, stiff with interwoven gold:
Then, through the illumined dome, to balmy rest
The obsequious herald guides each princely guest;
While to his regal bower the king ascends,
And beauteous Helen on her lord attends.
Soon as the morn, in orient purple dress*d,
Unbarr*d the portal of the roseate east,
The monarch rose; magnificent to view,
The imperial mantle o*er his vest he threw;
The glittering zone athwart his shoulders cast,
A starry falchion low-depending graced;
Clasp*d on his feet the embroidered sandals shine;
And forth he moves, majestic and divine,
Instant to young Telemachus he press*d;
And thus benevolent his speech addressed:

*Say, royal youth, sincere of soul report
Whit cause hath led you to the Spartan court?
Do public or domestic care constrain
This toilsome voyage o*er the surgy main?*

*O highly-favour*d delegate of Jove!
(Replies the prince) inflamed with filial love,
And anxious hope, to hear my parent*s doom,
A suppliant to your royal court I come:
Our sovereign seat a lewd usurping race
With lawless riot and misrule disgrace;
To pamper*d insolence devoted fall
Prime of the flock, and choicest of the stall:
For wild ambition wings their bold desire,
And all to mount the imperial bed aspire.
But prostrate I implore, O king! relate
The mournful series of my father*s fate:
Each known disaster of the man disclose,
Born by his mother to a world of woes!
Recite them; nor in erring pity fear
To wound with storied grief the filial ear.
If e*er Ulysses, to reclaim your right,
Avow*d his zeal in council or in fight,
If Phrygian camps the friendly toils attest,
To the sire*s merit give the son*s request.*

Deep from his inmost soul Atrides sigh*d,
And thus, indignant, to the prince replied:
*Heavens! would a soft, inglorious, dastard train
An absent hero*s nuptial joys profane!
So with her young, amid the woodland shades,
A timorous hind the lion*s court invades,
Leaves in the fatal lair the tender fawns,
Climbs the green cliff, or feeds the flowery lawns:
Meantime return*d, with dire remorseless sway,
The monarch-savage rends the trembling prey.
With equal fury, and with equal fame,
Ulysses soon shall reassert his claim.
O Jove supreme, whom gods and men revere!
And thou! to whom *tis given to gild the sphere!
With power congenial join*d, propitious aid
The chief adopted by the martial maid!
Such to our wish the warrior soon restore,
As when contending on the Lesbian shore
His prowess Philomelidies confess*d,
And loud-acclaiming Greeks the victor bless*d;
Then soon the invaders of his bed and throne
Their love presumptuous shall with life atone.
With patient ear, O royal youth, attend
The storied labour of thy father*s friend:
Fruitful of deeds, the copious tale is long,
But truth severe shall dictate to my tongue:
Learn what I heard the sea-born seer relate,
Whose eye can pierce the dark recess of fate.

*Long on the Egyptian coast by calms confined,
Heaven to my fleet refused a prosperous wind;
No vows had we preferr*d, nor victims slain!
For this the gods each favouring gale restrain
Jealous, to see their high behests obey*d;
Severe, if men the eternal rights evade.
High o*er a gulfy sea, the Pharian isle
Fronts the deep roar of disemboguing Nile:
Her distance from the shore, the course begun
At dawn, and ending with the setting sun,
A galley measures; when the stiffer gales
Rise on the poop, and fully stretch the sails.
There, anchor*d vessels safe in harbour lie,
Whilst limpid springs the failing cask supply.

*And now the twentieth sun, descending, laves
His glowing axle in the western waves:
Still with expanded sails we court in vain
Propitious winds to waft us o*er the main;
And the pale mariner at once deplores
His drooping vigour and exhausted stores.
When lo! a bright cerulean form appears,
Proteus her sire divine. With pity press*d,
Me sole the daughter of the deep address*d;
What time, with hunger pined, my absent mates
Roam the wide isle in search of rural cates,
Bait the barb*d steel, and from the fishy flood
Appease the afflictive fierce desire of food.*

**Whoe*er thou art (the azure goddess cries)
Thy conduct ill-deserves the praise of wise:
Is death thy choice, or misery thy boast,
That here inglorious, on a barren coast,
Thy brave associates droop, a meagre train,
With famine pale, and ask thy care in vain?*
*Struck with the loud reproach, I straight reply:
*Whate*er thy title in thy native sky,
A goddess sure! for more than moral grace
Speaks thee descendant of ethereal race;
Deem not that here of choice my fleet remains;
Some heavenly power averse my stay constrains:
O, piteous of my fate, vouchsafe to show
(For what*s sequester*d from celestial view?)
What power becalms the innavigable seas?
What guilt provokes him, and what vows appease?*

*I ceased, when affable the goddess cried:
*Observe, and in the truths I speak confide;
The oracular seer frequents the Pharian coast,
From whose high bed my birth divine I boast;
Proteus, a name tremendous o*er the main,
The delegate of Neptune*s watery reign.
Watch with insidious care his known abode;
There fast in chains constrain the various god;
Who bound, obedient to superior force,
Unerring will prescribe your destined course.
If, studious on your realms, you then demand
Their state, since last you left your natal land,
Instant the god obsequious will disclose
Bright tracts of glory or a cloud of woes.*

*She ceased; and suppliant thus I made reply:
*O goddess! on thy aid my hopes rely;
Dictate propitious to my duteous ear,
What arts can captivate the changeful seer;
For perilous the assay, unheard the toil,
To elude the prescience of a god by guile.*

*Thus to the goddess mild my suit I end.
Then she: *Obedient to my rule attend:
When through the zone of heaven the mounted sun
Hath journeyed half, and half remains to run;
The seer, while zephyrs curl the swelling deep,
Basks on the breezy shore, in grateful sleep,
His oozy limbs. Emerging from the wave,
The Phocas swift surround his rocky cave,
Frequent and full; the consecrated train
Of her, whose azure trident awes the main;
There wallowing warm, the enormous herd exhales
An oily steam, and taints the noontide gales.
To that recess, commodious for surprise,
When purple light shall next suffuse the skies,
With me repair; and from thy warrior-band
Three chosen chiefs of dauntless soul command;
Let their auxiliar force befriend the toil;
For strong the god, and perfected in guile.
Stretch*d on the shelly shore, he first surveys
The flouncing herd ascending from the seas;
Their number summ*d, reposed in sleep profound
The scaly charge their guardian god surround;
So with his battening flocks the careful swain
Abides pavilion*d on the grassy plain.
With powers united, obstinately bold,
Invade him, couch*d amid the scaly fold;
Instant he wears, elusive of the rape,
The mimic force of every savage shape;
Or glides with liquid lapse a murmuring stream,
Or, wrapp*d in flame, he glows at every limb.
Yet, still retentive, with redoubled might,
Through each vain passive form constrain his flight
But when, his native shape renamed, he stands
Patient of conquest, and your cause demands;
The cause that urged the bold attempt declare,
And soothe the vanquish*d with a victor*s prayer.
The bands releas*d, implore the seer to say
What godhead interdicts the watery way.
Who, straight propitious, in prophetic strain
Will teach you to repass the unmeasured main.*
She ceased, and bounding from the shelfy shore,
Round the descending nymph the waves resounding roar.

*High wrapp*d in wonder of the future deed,
with joy impetuous to the port I speed:
The wants of nature with repast suffice,
Till night with grateful shade involved the skies,
And shed ambrosial dews. Fast by the deep,
Along the tented shore, in balmy sleep,
Our cares were lost. When o*er the eastern lawn,
In saffron robes, the daughter of the dawn
Advanced her rosy steps, before the bay
Due ritual honours to the gods I pay;
Then seek the place the sea-born nymph assign*d,
With three associates of undaunted mind.
Arrived, to form along the appointed strand
For each a bed, she scoops the hilly sand;
Then, from her azure cave the finny spoils
Of four vast Phocae takes, to veil her wiles;
Beneath the finny spoils extended prone,
Hard toil! the prophet*s piercing eye to shun;
New from the corse, the scaly frauds diffuse
Unsavoury stench of oil, and brackish ooze;
But the bright sea-maid*s gentle power implored,
With nectar*d drops the sickening sense restored.

*Thus till the sun had travell*d half the skies,
Ambush*d we lie, and wait the bold emprise;
When, thronging quick to bask in open air,
The flocks of ocean to the strand repair;
Couch*d on the sunny sand, the monsters sleep;
Then Proteus, mounting from the hoary deep,
Surveys his charge, unknowing of deceit;
(In order told, we make the sum complete.)
Pleased with the false review, secure he lies,
And leaden slumbers press his drooping eyes.
Rushing impetuous forth, we straight prepare
A furious onset with the sound of war,
And shouting seize the god; our force to evade,
His various arts he soon resumes in aid;
A lion now, he curls a surgy mane;
Sudden our hands a spotted pard restrain;
Then, arm*d with tusks, and lightning in his eyes,
A boar*s obscener shape the god belies;
On spiry volumes, there a dragon rides;
Here, from our strict embrace a stream he glides.
At last, sublime, his stately growth he rears
A tree, and well-dissembled foliage wears.
Vain efforts with superior power compress*d,
Me with reluctance thus the seer address*d;
*Say, son of Atreus, say what god inspired
This daring fraud, and what the boon desired?*
I thus: *O thou, whose certain eye foresees
The fix*d event of fate*s remote decrees;
After long woes, and various toil endured,
Still on this desert isle my fleet is moor*d,
Unfriended of the gales. All-knowing, say,
What godhead interdicts the watery way?
What vows repentant will the power appease,
To speed a prosperous voyage o*er the seas.*

**To Jove (with stern regard the god replies)
And all the offended synod of the skies,
Just hecatombs with due devotion slain,
Thy guilt absolved, a prosperous voyage gain.
To the firm sanction of thy fate attend!
An exile thou, nor cheering face of friend,
Nor sight of natal shore, nor regal dome,
Shalt yet enjoy, but still art doom*d to roam.
Once more the Nile, who from the secret source
Of Jove*s high seat descends with sweepy force,
Must view his billows white beneath thy oar,
And altars blaze along his sanguine shore.
Then will the gods with holy pomp adored,
To thy long vows a safe return accord.*

*He ceased: heart wounded with afflictive pain,
(Doom*d to repeat the perils of the main,
A shelfy track and long!) *O seer* I cry,
*To the stern sanction of the offended sky
My prompt obedience bows. But deign to say
What fate propitious, or what dire dismay,
Sustain those peers, the relics of our host,
Whom I with Nestor on the Phrygian coast
Embracing left? Must I the warriors weep,
Whelm*d in the bottom of the monstrous deep?
Or did the kind domestic friend deplore
The breathless heroes on their native shore?

**Press not too far,* replied the god: *but cease
To know what, known, will violate thy peace;
Too curious of their doom! with friendly woe
Thy breast will heave, and tears eternal flow.
Part live! the rest, a lamentable train!
Range the dark bounds of Pluto*s dreary reign.
Two, foremost in the roll of Mars renown*d,
Whose arms with conquest in thy cause were crown*d,
Fell by disastrous fate: by tempests toss*d,
A third lives wretched on a distant coast.

*By Neptune rescued from Minerva*s hate,
On Gyrae, safe Oilean Ajax sate,
His ship o*erwhelm*d; but, frowning on the floods,
Impious he roar*d defiance to the gods;
To his own prowess all the glory gave:
The power defrauding who vouchsafed to save.
This heard the raging ruler of the main;
His spear, indignant for such high disdain,
He launched; dividing with his forky mace
The a*rial summit from the marble base:
The rock rush*d seaward, with impetuous roar
Ingulf*d, and to the abyss the boaster bore.

*By Juno*s guardian aid, the watery vast,
Secure of storms, your royal brother pass*d,
Till, coasting nigh the cape where Malen shrouds
Her spiry cliffs amid surrounding clouds,
A whirling gust tumultuous from the shore
Across the deep his labouring vessel bore.
In an ill-fated hour the coast he gain*d,
Where late in regal pomp Thyestes reigned;
But, when his hoary honours bow*d to fate,
*gysthus govern*d in paternal state,
The surges now subside, the tempest ends;
From his tall ship the king of men descends;
There fondly thinks the gods conclude his toil:
Far from his own domain salutes the soil;
With rapture oft the verge of Greece reviews,
And the dear turf with tears of joy bedews.
Him, thus exulting on the distant stand,
A spy distinguish*d from his airy stand;
To bribe whose vigilance, *gysthus told
A mighty sum of ill-persuading gold:
There watch*d this guardian of his guilty fear,
Till the twelfth moon had wheel*d her pale career;
And now, admonish*d by his eye, to court
With terror wing*d conveys the dread report.
Of deathful arts expert, his lord employs
The ministers of blood in dark surprise;
And twenty youths, in radiant mail incased,
Close ambush*d nigh the spacious hall he placed.
Then bids prepare the hospitable treat:
Vain shows of love to veil his felon hate!
To grace the victor*s welcome from the wars,
A train of coursers and triumphal cars
Magnificent he leads: the royal guest,
Thoughtless of ill, accepts the fraudful feast.
The troop forth-issuing from the dark recess,
With homicidal rage the king oppress!
So, whilst he feeds luxurious in the stall,
The sovereign of the herd is doomed to fall,
The partners of his fame and toils at Troy,
Around their lord, a mighty ruin, lie:
Mix*d with the brave, the base invaders bleed;
*gysthus sole survives to boast the deed.*

*He said: chill horrors shook my shivering soul,
Rack*d with convulsive pangs in dust I roll;
And hate, in madness of extreme despair,
To view the sun, or breathe the vital air.
But when, superior to the rage of woe,
I stood restored and tears had ceased to flow,
Lenient of grief the pitying god began:
*Forget the brother, and resume the man.
To Fate*s supreme dispose the dead resign,
That care be Fate*s, a speedy passage thine
Still lives the wretch who wrought the death deplored,
But lives a victim for thy vengeful sword;
Unless with filial rage Orestes glow,
And swift prevent the meditated blow:
You timely will return a welcome guest,
With him to share the sad funereal feast.*

*He said: new thoughts my beating heart employ,
My gloomy soul receives a gleam of joy.
Fair hope revives; and eager I address*d
The prescient godhead to reveal the rest:
*The doom decreed of those disastrous two
I*ve heard with pain, but oh! the tale pursue;
What third brave son of Mars the Fates constrain
To roam the howling desert of the main;
Or, in eternal shade of cold he lies,
Provoke new sorrows from these grateful eyes.*

**That chief (rejoin*d the god) his race derives
From Ithaca, and wondrous woes survives;
Laertes* son: girt with circumfluous tides,
He still calamitous constraint abides.
Him in Calypso*s cave of late I view*d,
When streaming grief his faded cheek bedow*d.
But vain his prayer, his arts are vain, to move
The enamour*d goddess, or elude her love:
His vessel sunk, and dear companions lost,
He lives reluctant on a foreign coast.
But oh, beloved by Heaven! reserved to thee
A happier lot the smiling Fates decree:
Free from that law, beneath whose mortal sway
Matter is changed, and varying forms decay,
Elysium shall be thine: the blissful plains
Of utmost earth, where Rhadamanthus reigns.
Joys ever young, unmix*d with pain or fear,
Fill the wide circle of the eternal year:
Stern winter smiles on that auspicious clime:
The fields are florid with unfading prime;
From the bleak pole no winds inclement blow,
Mould the round hail, or flake the fleecy snow;
But from the breezy deep the blest inhale
The fragrant murmurs of the western gale.
This grace peculiar will the gods afford
To thee, the son of Jove, and beauteous Helen*s lord.*

*He ceased, and plunging in the vast profound,
Beneath the god and whirling billows bound.
Then speeding back, involved in various thought,
My friends attending at the shore I sought,
Arrived, the rage of hunger we control
Till night with silent shade invests the pole;
Then lose the cares of life in pleasing rest.
Soon as the morn reveals the roseate east,
With sails we wing the masts, our anchors weigh,
Unmoor the fleet, and rush into the sea.
Ranged on the banks, beneath our equal oars
White curl the waves, and the vex*d ocean roars
Then, steering backward from the Pharian isle,
We gain the stream of Jove-descended Nile;
There quit the ships, and on the destined shore
With ritual hecatombs the gods adore;
Their wrath atoned, to Agamemnon*s name
A cenotaph I raise of deathless fame.
These rites to piety and grief discharged,
The friendly gods a springing gale enlarged;
The fleet swift tilting o*er the surges flew,
Till Grecian cliffs appear*d a blissful view!

*Thy patient ear hath heard me long relate
A story, fruitful of disastrous fate.
And now, young prince, indulge my fond request;
Be Sparta honoured with his royal guest,
Till, from his eastern goal, the joyous sun
His twelfth diurnal race begins to run.
Meantime my train the friendly gifts prepare,
The sprightly coursers and a polish*d car;
With these a goblet of capacious mould,
Figured with art to dignify the gold
(Form*d for libation to the gods), shall prove
A pledge and monument of sacred love.*

*My quick return (young Ithacus rejoin*d),
Damps the warm wishes of my raptured mind;
Did not my fate my needful haste constrain,
Charm*d by your speech so graceful and humane,
Lost in delight the circling year would roll,
While deep attention fix*d my listening soul.
But now to Pyle permit my destined way,
My loved associates chide my long delay:
In dear remembrance of your royal grace,
I take the present of the promised vase;
The coursers, for the champaign sports retain;
That gift our barren rocks will render vain:
Horrid with cliffs, our meagre land allows
Thin herbage for the mountain goat to browse,
But neither mead nor plain supplies, to feed
The sprightly courser, or indulge his speed:
To sea-surrounded realms the gods assign
Small tract of fertile lawn, the least to mine.*

His hand the king with tender passion press*d,
And, smiling, thus the royal youth address*d:
*O early worth! a soul so wise, and young,
Proclaims you from the sage Ulysses sprung.
Selected from my stores, of matchless price,
An urn shall recompense your prudent choice;
By Vulcan*s art, the verge with gold enchased.
A pledge the sceptred power of Sidon gave,
When to his realm I plough*d the orient wave.*

Thus they alternate; while, with artful care,
The menial train the regal feast prepare.
The firstlings of the flock are doom*d to die:
Rich fragrant wines the cheering bowl supply;
A female band the gift of Ceres bring;
And the gilt roofs with genial triumph ring.

Meanwhile, in Ithaca, the suitor powers
In active games divide their jovial hours;
In areas varied with mosaic art,
Some whirl the disk, and some the javelin dart,
Aside, sequester*d from the vast resort,
Antinous sole spectator of the sport;
With great Eurymachus, of worth confess*d,
And high descent, superior to the rest;
Whom young No*mon lowly thus address*d:*

*My ship, equipp*d within the neighboring port,
The prince, departing for the Pylian court,
Requested for his speed; but, courteous, say
When steers he home, or why this long delay?
For Elis I should sail with utmost speed,
To import twelve mares which there luxurious feed,
And twelve young mules, a strong laborious race,
New to the plow, unpractised in the trace.*

Unknowing of the course to Pyle design*d,
A sudden horror seized on either mind;
The prince in rural bower they fondly thought,
Numbering his flocks and herds, not far remote.
*Relate (Antinous cries), devoid of guile,
When spread the prince his sale for distant Pyle?
Did chosen chiefs across the gulfy main
Attend his voyage, or domestic train?
Spontaneous did you speed his secret course,
Or was the vessel seized by fraud or force?*

*With willing duty, not reluctant mind
(No*mon cried), the vessel was resign*d,
Who, in the balance, with the great affairs
Of courts presume to weigh their private cares?
With him, the peerage next in power to you;
And Mentor, captain of the lordly crew,
Or some celestial in his reverend form,
Safe from the secret rock and adverse storm,
Pilots the course; for when the glimmering ray
Of yester dawn disclosed the tender day,
Mentor himself I saw, and much admired,*
Then ceased the youth, and from the court retired.

Confounded and appall*d, the unfinish*d game
The suitors quit, and all to council came.
Antinous first the assembled peers address*d.
Rage sparkling in his eyes, and burning in his breast

*O shame to manhood! shall one daring boy
The scheme of all our happiness destroy?
Fly unperceived, seducing half the flower
Of nobles, and invite a foreign power?
The ponderous engine raised to crush us all,
Recoiling, on his head is sure to fall.
Instant prepare me, on the neighbouring strand,
With twenty chosen mates a vessel mann*d;
For ambush*d close beneath the Samian shore
His ship returning shall my spies explore;
He soon his rashness shall with life atone,
Seek for his father*s fate, but find his own.*

With vast applause the sentence all approve;
Then rise, and to the feastful hall remove;
Swift to the queen the herald Medon ran,
Who heard the consult of the dire divan:
Before her dome the royal matron stands,
And thus the message of his haste demands;

*What will the suitors? must my servant-train
The allotted labours of the day refrain,
For them to form some exquisite repast?
Heaven grant this festival may prove their last!
Or, if they still must live, from me remove
The double plague of luxury and love!
Forbear, ye sons of insolence! forbear,
In riot to consume a wretched heir.
In the young soul illustrious thought to raise,
Were ye not tutor*d with Ulysses* praise?
Have not your fathers oft my lord defined,
Gentle of speech, beneficent of mind?
Some kings with arbitrary rage devour,
Or in their tyrant-minions vest the power;
Ulysses let no partial favours fall,
The people*s parent, he protected all;
But absent now, perfidious and ingrate!
His stores ye ravage, and usurp his state.*

He thus: *O were the woes you speak the worst!
They form a deed more odious and accursed;
More dreadful than your boding soul divines;
But pitying Jove avert the dire designs!
The darling object of your royal care
Is marked to perish in a deathful snare;
Before he anchors in his native port,
From Pyle re-sailing and the Spartan court;
Horrid to speak! in ambush is decreed
The hope and heir of Ithaca to bleed!*

Sudden she sunk beneath the weighty woes,
The vital streams a chilling horror froze;
The big round tear stands trembling in her eye,
And on her tongue imperfect accents die.
At length in tender language interwove
With sighs, she thus expressed her anxious love;
*Why rarely would my son his fate explore,
Ride the wild waves, and quit the safer shore?
Did he with all the greatly wretched, crave
A blank oblivion, and untimely grave?*

*Tis not (replied the sage) to Medon given
To know, if some inhabitant of heaven
In his young breast the daring thought inspired
Or if, alone with filial duty fired,
The winds and waves he tempts in early bloom,
Studious to learn his absent father*s doom.*

The sage retired: unable to control
The mighty griefs that swell her labouring soul
Rolling convulsive on the floor is seen
The piteous object of a prostrate queen.
Words to her dumb complaint a pause supplies,
And breath, to waste in unavailing cries.
Around their sovereign wept the menial fair,
To whom she thus address*d her deep despair:

*Behold a wretch whom all the gods consign
To woe! Did ever sorrows equal mine?
Long to my joys my dearest lord is lost,
His country*s buckler, and the Grecian boast;
Now from my fond embrace, by tempests torn,
Our other column of the state is borne;
Nor took a kind adieu, nor sought consent!*
Unkind confederates in his dire intent!
Ill suits it with your shows of duteous zeal,
From me the purposed voyage to conceal;
Though at the solemn midnight hour he rose,
Why did you fear to trouble my repose?
He either had obey*d my fond desire,
Or seen his mother pierced with grief expire.
Bid Dolius quick attend, the faithful slave
Whom to my nuptial train Icarius gave
To tend the fruit groves: with incessant speed
He shall this violence of death decreed
To good Laertes tell. Experienced age
May timely intercept the ruffian rage.
Convene the tribes the murderous plot reveal,
And to their power to save his race appeal.*

Then Euryclea thus: *My dearest dread;
Though to the sword I bow this hoary head,
Or if a dungeon be the pain decreed,
I own me conscious of the unpleasing deed;
Auxiliar to his flight, my aid implored,
With wine and viands I the vessel stored;
A solemn oath, imposed, the secret seal*d,
Till the twelfth dawn the light of day reveal*d.
Dreading the effect of a fond mother*s fear,
He dared not violate your royal ear.
But bathe, and, in imperial robes array*d,
Pay due devotions to the martial maid,
And rest affianced in her guardian aid.
Send not to good Laertes, nor engage
In toils of state the miseries of age:
Tis impious to surmise the powers divine
To ruin doom the Jove-descended line;
Long shall the race of just Arcesius reign,
And isles remote enlarge his old domain.*

The queen her speech with calm attention hears,
Her eyes restrain the silver-streaming tears:
She bathes, and robed, the sacred dome ascends;
Her pious speed a female train attends:
The salted cakes in canisters are laid,
And thus the queen invokes Minerva*s aid;

*Daughter divine of Jove, whose arm can wield
The avenging bolt, and shake the dreadful shield
If e*er Ulysses to thy fane preferr*d
The best and choicest of his flock and herd;
Hear, goddess, hear, by those oblations won;
And for the pious sire preserve the son;
His wish*d return with happy power befriend,
And on the suitors let thy wrath descend.*

She ceased; shrill ecstasies of joy declare
The favouring goddess present to the prayer;
The suitors heard, and deem*d the mirthful voice
A signal of her hymeneal choice;
Whilst one most jovial thus accosts the board:

*Too late the queen selects a second lord;
In evil hour the nuptial rite intends,
When o*er her son disastrous death impends.*
Thus he, unskill*d of what the fates provide!
But with severe rebuke Antinous cried:

*These empty vaunts will make the voyage vain:
Alarm not with discourse the menial train:
The great event with silent hope attend,
Our deeds alone our counsel must commend.*
His speech thus ended short, he frowning rose,
And twenty chiefs renowned for valour chose;
Down to the strand he speeds with haughty strides,
Where anchor*d in the bay the vessel rides,
Replete with mail and military store,
In all her tackle trim to quit the shore.
The desperate crew ascend, unfurl the sails
(The seaward prow invites the tardy gales);
Then take repast till Hesperus display*d
His golden circlet, in the western shade.

Meantime the queen, without reflection due,
Heart-wounded, to the bed of state withdrew:
In her sad breast the prince*s fortunes roll,
And hope and doubt alternate seize her soul.
So when the woodman*s toil her cave surrounds,
And with the hunter*s cry the grove resounds,
With grief and rage the mother-lion stung,
Fearless herself, yet trembles for her young,
While pensive in the silent slumberous shade,
Sleep*s gentle powers her drooping eyes invade;
Minerva, life-like, on embodied air
Impress*d the form of Iphthima the fair;
(Icarius* daughter she, whose blooming charms
Allured Eumelus to her virgin arms;
A sceptred lord, who o*er the fruitful plain
Of Thessaly wide stretched his ample reign:)
As Pallas will*d, along the sable skies,
To calm the queen, the phantom sister flies.
Swift on the regal dome, descending right,
The bolted valves are pervious to her flight.
Close to her head the pleasing vision stands,
And thus performs Minerva*s high commands

*O why, Penelope, this causeless fear,
To render sleep*s soft blessing unsincere?
Alike devote to sorrow*s dire extreme
The day-reflection, and the midnight-dream!
Thy son the gods propitious will restore,
And bid thee cease his absence to deplore.*

To whom the queen (whilst yet in pensive mind
Was in the silent gates of sleep confined):
*O sister to my soul forever dear,
Why this first visit to reprove my fear?
How in a realm so distant should you know
From what deep source my ceaseless sorrows flow?
To all my hope my royal lord is lost,
His country*s buckler, and the Grecian boast;
And with consummate woe to weigh me down,
The heir of all his honours and his crown,
My darling son is fled! an easy prey
To the fierce storms, or men more fierce than they;
Who, in a league of blood associates sworn,
Will intercept the unwary youth*s return.*

*Courage resume (the shadowy form replied);
In the protecting care of Heaven confide;
On him attends the blue eyed martial maid:
What earthly can implore a surer aid?
Me now the guardian goddess deigns to send,
To bid thee patient his return attend.*

The queen replies: *If in the blest abodes,
A goddess, thou hast commerce with the gods;
Say, breathes my lord the blissful realm of light,
Or lies he wrapp*d in ever-during night?*

*Inquire not of his doom, (the phantom cries,)
I speak not all the counsel of the skies;
Nor must indulge with vain discourse, or long,
The windy satisfaction of the tongue.*

Swift through the valves the visionary fair
Repass*d, and viewless mix*d with common air.
The queen awakes, deliver*d of her woes;
With florid joy her heart dilating glows:
The vision, manifest of future fate,
Makes her with hope her son*s arrival wait.

Meantime the suitors plough the watery plain,
Telemachus in thought already slain!
When sight of lessening Ithaca was lost
Their sail directed for the Samian coast
A small but verdant isle appear*d in view,
And Asteris the advancing pilot knew;
An ample port the rocks projected form,
To break the rolling waves and ruffling storm:
That safe recess they gain with happy speed,
And in close ambush wait the murderous deed.




BOOK V.


ARGUMENT.
THE DEPARTURE OF ULYSSES FROM CALYPSO


Pallas in a council of the gods complains of the detention of Ulysses
in the Island of Calypso: whereupon Mercury is sent to command his
removal. The seat of Calypso described. She consents with much
difficulty; and Ulysses builds a vessel with his own hands, in which he
embarks. Neptune overtakes him with a terrible tempest, in which he is
shipwrecked, and in the last danger of death; till Lencothea, a
sea-goddess, assists him, and, after innumerable perils, he gets ashore
on Ph*acia.


The saffron morn, with early blushes spread,
Now rose refulgent from Tithonus* bed;
With new-born day to gladden mortal sight,
And gild the courts of heaven with sacred light.
Then met the eternal synod of the sky,
Before the god, who thunders from on high,
Supreme in might, sublime in majesty.
Pallas, to these, deplores the unequal fates
Of wise Ulysses and his toils relates:
Her hero*s danger touch*d the pitying power,
The nymph*s seducements, and the magic bower.
Thus she began her plaint: *Immortal Jove!
And you who fill the blissful seats above!
Let kings no more with gentle mercy sway,
Or bless a people willing to obey,
But crush the nations with an iron rod,
And every monarch be the scourge of God.
If from your thoughts Ulysses you remove,
Who ruled his subjects with a father*s love,
Sole in an isle, encircled by the main,
Abandon*d, banish*d from his native reign,
Unbless*d he sighs, detained by lawless charms,
And press*d unwilling in Calypso*s arms.
Nor friends are there, nor vessels to convey,
Nor oars to cut the immeasurable way.
And now fierce traitors, studious to destroy
His only son, their ambush*d fraud employ;
Who, pious, following his great father*s fame,
To sacred Pylos and to Sparta came.*

*What words are these? (replied the power who forms
The clouds of night, and darkens heaven with storms;)
Is not already in thy soul decreed,
The chief*s return shall make the guilty bleed?
What cannot Wisdom do? Thou may*st restore
The son in safety to his native shore;
While the fell foes, who late in ambush lay,
With fraud defeated measure back their way.*

Then thus to Hermes the command was given:
*Hermes, thou chosen messenger of heaven!
Go, to the nymph be these our orders borne
*Tis Jove*s decree, Ulysses shall return:
The patient man shall view his old abodes,
Nor helped by mortal hand, nor guiding gods
In twice ten days shall fertile Scheria find,
Alone, and floating to the wave and wind.
The bold Ph*acians there, whose haughty line
Is mixed with gods, half human, half divine,
The chief shall honour as some heavenly guest,
And swift transport him to his place of rest,
His vessels loaded with a plenteous store
Of brass, of vestures, and resplendent ore
(A richer prize than if his joyful isle
Received him charged with Ilion*s noble spoil),
His friends, his country, he shall see, though late:
Such is our sovereign will, and such is fate.*

He spoke. The god who mounts the winged winds
Fast to his feet the golden pinions binds,
That high through fields of air his flight sustain
O*er the wide earth, and o*er the boundless main:
He grasps the wand that causes sleep to fly,
Or in soft slumber seals the wakeful eye;
Then shoots from heaven to high Pieria*s steep,
And stoops incumbent on the rolling deep.
So watery fowl, that seek their fishy food,
With wings expanded o*er the foaming flood,
Now sailing smooth the level surface sweep,
Now dip their pinions in the briny deep;
Thus o*er the world of waters Hermes flew,
Till now the distant island rose in view:
Then, swift ascending from the azure wave,
He took the path that winded to the cave.
Large was the grot, in which the nymph he found
(The fair-hair*d nymph with every beauty crown*d).
The cave was brighten*d with a rising blaze;
Cedar and frankincense, an odorous pile,
Flamed on the hearth, and wide perfumed the isle;
While she with work and song the time divides,
And through the loom the golden shuttle guides.
Without the grot a various sylvan scene
Appear*d around, and groves of living green;
Poplars and alders ever quivering play*d,
And nodding cypress form*d a fragrant shade:
On whose high branches, waving with the storm,
The birds of broadest wing their mansions form,*
The chough, the sea-mew, the loquacious crow,*
and scream aloft, and skim the deeps below.
Depending vines the shelving cavern screen.
With purple clusters blushing through the green.
Four limpid fountains from the clefts distil:
And every fountain pours a several rill,
In mazy windings wandering down the hill:
Where bloomy meads with vivid greens were crown*d,
And glowing violets threw odours round.
A scene, where, if a god should cast his sight,
A god might gaze, and wander with delight!
Joy touch*d the messenger of heaven: he stay*d
Entranced, and all the blissful haunts surveyed.
Him, entering in the cave, Calypso knew;
For powers celestial to each other*s view
Stand still confess*d, though distant far they lie
To habitants of earth, or sea, or sky.
But sad Ulysses, by himself apart,
Pour*d the big sorrows of his swelling heart;
All on the lonely shore he sate to weep,
And roll*d his eyes around the restless deep:
Toward his loved coast he roll*d his eyes in vain,
Till, dimm*d with rising grief, they stream*d again.

Now graceful seated on her shining throne,
To Hermes thus the nymph divine begun:

*God of the golden wand! on what behest
Arrivest thou here, an unexpected guest?
Loved as thou art, thy free injunctions lay;
*Tis mine with joy and duty to obey.
Till now a stranger, in a happy hour
Approach, and taste the dainties of my bower.*

Thus having spoke, the nymph the table spread
(Ambrosial cates, with nectar rosy-red);
Hermes the hospitable rite partook,
Divine refection! then, recruited, spoke:

*What moves this journey from my native sky,
A goddess asks, nor can a god deny.
Hear then the truth. By mighty Jove*s command
Unwilling have I trod this pleasing land:
For who, self-moved, with weary wing would sweep
Such length of ocean and unmeasured deep;
A world of waters! far from all the ways
Where men frequent, or sacred altars blaze!
But to Jove*s will submission we must pay;
What power so great to dare to disobey?
A man, he says, a man resides with thee,
Of all his kind most worn with misery.
The Greeks, (whose arms for nine long year employ*d
Their force on Ilion, in the tenth destroy*d,)
At length, embarking in a luckless hour,
With conquest proud, incensed Minerva*s power:
Hence on the guilty race her vengeance hurl*d,
With storms pursued them through the liquid world.
There all his vessels sunk beneath the wave!
There all his dear companions found their grave!
Saved from the jaws of death by Heaven*s decree,
The tempest drove him to these shores and thee.
Him, Jove now orders to his native lands
Straight to dismiss: so destiny commands:
Impatient Fate his near return attends,
And calls him to his country, and his friends.*

E*en to her inmost soul the goddess shook;
Then thus her anguish, and her passion broke:
*Ungracious gods! with spite and envy cursed!
Still to your own ethereal race the worst!
Ye envy mortal and immortal joy,
And love, the only sweet of life destroy,
Did ever goddess by her charms engage
A favour*d mortal, and not feel your rage?
So when Aurora sought Orion*s love,
Her joys disturbed your blissful hours above,
Till, in Ortygia Dian*s winged dart
Had pierced the hapless hunter to the heart,
So when the covert of the thrice-eared field
Saw stately Ceres to her passion yield,
Scarce could Iasion taste her heavenly charms,
But Jove*s swift lightning scorched him in her arms.
And is it now my turn, ye mighty powers!
Am I the envy of your blissful bowers?
A man, an outcast to the storm and wave,
It was my crime to pity, and to save;
When he who thunders rent his bark in twain,
And sunk his brave companions in the main,
Alone, abandon*d, in mid-ocean tossed,
The sport of winds, and driven from every coast,
Hither this man of miseries I led,
Received the friendless, and the hungry fed;
Nay promised (vainly promised) to bestow
Immortal life, exempt from age and woe.
*Tis past-and Jove decrees he shall remove;
Gods as we are, we are but slaves to Jove.
Go then he must (he must, if he ordain,
Try all those dangers, all those deeps, again);
But never, never shall Calypso send
To toils like these her husband and her friend.
What ships have I, what sailors to convey,
What oars to cut the long laborious way?
Yet I*ll direct the safest means to go;
That last advice is all I can bestow.*

To her the power who hears the charming rod;
*Dismiss the man, nor irritate the god;
Prevent the rage of him who reigns above,
For what so dreadful as the wrath of Jove?*
Thus having said, he cut the cleaving sky,
And in a moment vanished from her eye,
The nymph, obedient to divine command,
To seek Ulysses, paced along the sand,
Him pensive on the lonely beach she found,
With streaming eyes in briny torrents drown*d,
And inly pining for his native shore;
For now the soft enchantress pleased no more;
For now, reluctant, and constrained by charms,
Absent he lay in her desiring arms,
In slumber wore the heavy night away,
On rocks and shores consumed the tedious day;
There sate all desolate, and sighed alone,
With echoing sorrows made the mountains groan.
And roll*d his eyes o*er all the restless main,
Till, dimmed with rising grief, they streamed again.

Here, on his musing mood the goddess press*d,
Approaching soft, and thus the chief address*d:
*Unhappy man! to wasting woes a prey,
No more in sorrows languish life away:
Free as the winds I give thee now to rove:
Go, fell the timber of yon lofty grove,
And form a raft, and build the rising ship,
Sublime to bear thee o*er the gloomy deep.
To store the vessel let the care be mine,
With water from the rock and rosy wine,
And life-sustaining bread, and fair array,
And prosperous gales to waft thee on the way.
These, if the gods with my desire comply
(The gods, alas, more mighty far than I,
And better skill*d in dark events to come),
In peace shall land thee at thy native home.*

With sighs Ulysses heard the words she spoke,
Then thus his melancholy silence broke:
*Some other motive, goddess! sways thy mind
(Some close design, or turn of womankind),
Nor my return the end, nor this the way,
On a slight raft to pass the swelling sea,
Huge, horrid, vast! where scarce in safety sails
The best-built ship, though Jove inspires the gales.
The bold proposal how shall I fulfil,
Dark as I am, unconscious of thy will?
Swear, then, thou mean*st not what my soul forebodes;
Swear by the solemn oath that binds the gods.*

Him, while he spoke, with smiles Calypso eyed,
And gently grasp*d his hand, and thus replied:
*This shows thee, friend, by old experience taught,
And learn*d in all the wiles of human thought,
How prone to doubt, how cautious, are the wise!
But hear, O earth, and hear, ye sacred skies!
And thou, O Styx! whose formidable floods
Glide through the shades, and bind the attesting gods!
No form*d design, no meditated end,
Lurks in the counsel of thy faithful friend;
Kind the persuasion, and sincere my aim;
The same my practice, were my fate the same.
Heaven has not cursed me with a heart of steel,
But given the sense to pity, and to feel.*

Thus having said, the goddess marched before:
He trod her footsteps in the sandy shore.
At the cool cave arrived, they took their state;
He filled the throne where Mercury had sate.
For him the nymph a rich repast ordains,
Such as the mortal life of man sustains;
Before herself were placed the the cates divine,
Ambrosial banquet and celestial wine.
Their hunger satiate, and their thirst repress*d,
Thus spoke Calypso to her godlike guest:

*Ulysses! (with a sigh she thus began;)
O sprung from gods! in wisdom more than man!
Is then thy home the passion of thy heart?
Thus wilt thou leave me, are we thus to part?
Farewell! and ever joyful mayst thou be,
Nor break the transport with one thought of me.
But ah, Ulysses! wert thou given to know
What Fate yet dooms these still to undergo,
Thy heart might settle in this scene of ease.
And e*en these slighted charms might learn to please.
A willing goddess, and immortal life,
Might banish from thy mind an absent wife.
Am I inferior to a mortal dame?
Less soft my feature less august my frame?
Or shall the daughters of mankind compare
Their earth born beauties with the heavenly fair?*

*Alas! for this (the prudent man replies)
Against Ulysses shall thy anger rise?
Loved and adored, O goddess as thou art,
Forgive the weakness of a human heart.
Though well I see thy graces far above
The dear, though mortal, object of my love,
Of youth eternal well the difference know,
And the short date of fading charms below;
Yet every day, while absent thus I roam,
I languish to return and die at home.
Whate*er the gods shall destine me to bear;
In the black ocean or the watery war,
*Tis mine to master with a constant mind;
Inured to perils, to the worst resign*d,
By seas, by wars, so many dangers run;
Still I can suffer; their high will he done!*

Thus while he spoke, the beamy sun descends,
And rising night her friendly shade extends,
To the close grot the lonely pair remove,
And slept delighted with the gifts of love.
When rosy morning call*d them from their rest,
Ulysses robed him in the cloak and vest.
The nymph*s fair head a veil transparent graced,
Her swelling loins a radiant zone embraced
With flowers of gold; an under robe, unbound,
In snowy waves flow*d glittering on the ground.
Forth issuing thus, she gave him first to wield
A weighty axe with truest temper steeled,
And double-edged; the handle smooth and plain,
Wrought of the clouded olive*s easy grain;
And next, a wedge to drive with sweepy sway
Then to the neighboring forest led the way.
On the lone island*s utmost verge there stood
Of poplars, pine, and firs, a lofty wood,
Whose leafless summits to the skies aspire,
Scorch*d by the sun, or seared by heavenly fire
(Already dried). These pointing out to view,
The nymph just show*d him, and with tears withdrew.

Now toils the hero: trees on trees o*erthrown
Fall crackling round him, and the forests groan:
Sudden, full twenty on the plain are strow*d,
And lopp*d and lighten*d of their branchy load.
At equal angles these disposed to join,
He smooth*d and squared them by the rule and line,
(The wimbles for the work Calypso found)
With those he pierced them and with clinchers bound.
Long and capacious as a shipwright forms
Some bark*s broad bottom to out-ride the storms,
So large he built the raft; then ribb*d it strong
From space to space, and nail*d the planks along;
These form*d the sides: the deck he fashion*d last;
Then o*er the vessel raised the taper mast,
With crossing sail-yards dancing in the wind;
And to the helm the guiding rudder join*d
(With yielding osiers fenced, to break the force
Of surging waves, and steer the steady course).
Thy loom, Calypso, for the future sails
Supplied the cloth, capacious of the gales.
With stays and cordage last he rigged the ship,
And, roll*d on levers, launch*d her in the deep.

Four days were pass*d, and now the work complete,
Shone the fifth morn, when from her sacred seat
The nymph dismiss*d him (odorous garments given),
And bathed in fragrant oils that breathed of heaven:
Then fill*d two goatskins with her hands divine,
With water one, and one with sable wine:
Of every kind, provisions heaved aboard;
And the full decks with copious viands stored.
The goddess, last, a gentle breeze supplies,
To curl old Ocean, and to warm the skies.

And now, rejoicing in the prosperous gales,
With beating heart Ulysses spreads his sails;
Placed at the helm he sate, and mark*d the skies,
Nor closed in sleep his ever-watchful eyes.
There view*d the Pleiads, and the Northern Team,
And great Orion*s more refulgent beam.
To which, around the axle of the sky,
The Bear, revolving, points his golden eye:
Who shines exalted on the ethereal plain,
Nor bathes his blazing forehead in the main.
Far on the left those radiant fires to keep
The nymph directed, as he sail*d the deep.
Full seventeen nights he cut the foaming way:
The distant land appear*d the following day:
Then swell*d to sight Ph*acia*s dusky coast,
And woody mountains, half in vapours lost;
That lay before him indistinct and vast,
Like a broad shield amid the watery waste.

But him, thus voyaging the deeps below,
From far, on Solyme*s a*rial brow,
The king of ocean saw, and seeing burn*d
(From *thiopia*s happy climes return*d);
The raging monarch shook his azure head,
And thus in secret to his soul he said:
*Heavens! how uncertain are the powers on high!
Is then reversed the sentence of the sky,
In one man*s favour; while a distant guest
I shared secure the *thiopian feast?
Behold how near Ph*acia*s land he draws;
The land affix*d by Fate*s eternal laws
To end his toils. Is then our anger vain?
No; if this sceptre yet commands the main.*

He spoke, and high the forky trident hurl*d,
Rolls clouds on clouds, and stirs the watery world,
At once the face of earth and sea deforms,
Swells all the winds, and rouses all the storms.
Down rushed the night: east, west, together roar;
And south and north roll mountains to the shore.
Then shook the hero, to despair resign*d,
And question*d thus his yet unconquer*d mind;

*Wretch that I am! what farther fates attend
This life of toils, and what my destined end?
Too well, alas! the island goddess knew
On the black sea what perils should ensue.
New horrors now this destined head inclose;
Untill*d is yet the measure of my woes;
With what a cloud the brows of heaven are crown*d;
What raging winds! what roaring waters round!
*Tis Jove himself the swelling tempest rears;
Death, present death, on every side appears.
Happy! thrice happy! who, in battle slain,
Press*d in Atrides* cause the Trojan plain!
Oh! had I died before that well-fought wall!
Had some distinguish*d day renown*d my fall
(Such as was that when showers of javelins fled
From conquering Troy around Achilles dead),
All Greece had paid me solemn funerals then,
And spread my glory with the sons of men.
A shameful fate now hides my hapless head,
Unwept, unnoted, and for ever dead!*

A mighty wave rush*d o*er him as he spoke,
The raft is cover*d, and the mast is broke;
Swept from the deck and from the rudder torn,
Far on the swelling surge the chief was borne;
While by the howling tempest rent in twain
Flew sail and sail-yards rattling o*er the main.
Long-press*d, he heaved beneath the weighty wave,
Clogg*d by the cumbrous vest Calypso gave;
At length, emerging, from his nostrils wide
And gushing mouth effused the briny tide;
E*en then not mindless of his last retreat,
He seized the raft, and leap*d into his seat,
Strong with the fear of death. In rolling flood,
Now here, now there, impell*d the floating wood
As when a heap of gather*d thorns is cast,
Now to, now fro, before the autumnal blast;
Together clung, it rolls around the field;
So roll*d the float, and so its texture held:
And now the south, and now the north, bear sway,
And now the east the foamy floods obey,
And now the west wind whirls it o*er the sea.
The wandering chief with toils on toils oppress*d,
Leucothea saw, and pity touch*d her breast.
(Herself a mortal once, of Cadmus* strain,
But now an azure sister of the main)
Swift as a sea-mew springing from the flood,
All radiant on the raft the goddess stood;
Then thus address*d him: *Thou whom heaven decrees
To Neptune*s wrath, stern tyrant of the seas!
(Unequal contest!) not his rage and power,
Great as he is, such virtue shall devour.
What I suggest, thy wisdom will perform:
Forsake thy float, and leave it to the storm;
Strip off thy garments; Neptune*s fury brave
With naked strength, and plunge into the wave.
To reach Ph*acia all thy nerves extend,
There Fate decrees thy miseries shall end.
This heavenly scarf beneath thy bosom bind,
And live; give all thy terrors to the wind.
Soon as thy arms the happy shore shall gain,
Return the gift, and cast it in the main:
Observe my orders, and with heed obey,
Cast it far off, and turn thy eyes away.*

With that, her hand the sacred veil bestows,
Then down the deeps she dived from whence she rose;
A moment snatch*d the shining form away,
And all was covered with the curling sea.

Struck with amaze, yet still to doubt inclined,
He stands suspended, and explores his mind:
*What shall I do? unhappy me! who knows
But other gods intend me other woes?
Whoe*er thou art, I shall not blindly join
Thy pleaded reason, but consult with mine:
For scarce in ken appears that distant isle
Thy voice foretells me shall conclude my toil.
Thus then I judge: while yet the planks sustain
The wild waves* fury, here I fix*d remain:
But, when their texture to the tempest yields,
I launch adventurous on the liquid fields,
Join to the help of gods the strength of man,
And take this method, since the best I can.*

While thus his thoughts an anxious council hold,
The raging god a watery mountain roll*d;
Like a black sheet the whelming billows spread,
Burst o*er the float, and thunder*d on his head.
Planks, beams, disparted fly; the scatter*d wood
Rolls diverse, and in fragments strews the flood.
So the rude Boreas, o*er the field new-shorn,
Tosses and drives the scatter*d heaps of corn.
And now a single beam the chief bestrides:
There poised a while above the bounding tides,
His limbs discumbers of the clinging vest,
And binds the sacred cincture round his breast:
Then prone an ocean in a moment flung,
Stretch*d wide his eager arms, and shot the seas along.
All naked now, on heaving billows laid,
Stern Neptune eyed him, and contemptuous said:

*Go, learn*d in woes, and other foes essay!
Go, wander helpless on the watery way;
Thus, thus find out the destined shore, and then
(If Jove ordains it) mix with happier men.
Whate*er thy fate, the ills our wrath could raise
Shall last remember*d in thy best of days.*

This said, his sea-green steeds divide the foam,
And reach high *g* and the towery dome.
Now, scarce withdrawn the fierce earth-shaking power,
Jove*s daughter Pallas watch*d the favouring hour.
Back to their caves she bade the winds to fly;
And hush*d the blustering brethren of the sky.
The drier blasts alone of Boreas away,
And bear him soft on broken waves away;
With gentle force impelling to that shore,
Where fate has destined he shall toil no more.
And now, two nights, and now two days were pass*d,
Since wide he wander*d on the watery waste;
Heaved on the surge with intermitting breath,
And hourly panting in the arms of death.
The third fair morn now blazed upon the main;
Then glassy smooth lay all the liquid plain;
The winds were hush*d, the billows scarcely curl*d,
And a dead silence still*d the watery world;
When lifted on a ridgy wave he spies
The land at distance, and with sharpen*d eyes.
As pious children joy with vast delight
When a loved sire revives before their sight
(Who, lingering long, has call*d on death in vain,
Fix*d by some demon to his bed of pain,
Till heaven by miracle his life restore);
So joys Ulysses at the appearing shore;
And sees (and labours onward as he sees)
The rising forests, and the tufted trees.
And now, as near approaching as the sound
Of human voice the listening ear may wound,
Amidst the rocks he heard a hollow roar
Of murmuring surges breaking on the shore;
Nor peaceful port was there, nor winding bay,
To shield the vessel from the rolling sea,
But cliffs and shaggy shores, a dreadful sight!
All rough with rocks, with foamy billows white.
Fear seized his slacken*d limbs and beating heart,
As thus he communed with his soul apart;

*Ah me! when, o*er a length of waters toss*d,
These eyes at last behold the unhoped-for coast,
No port receives me from the angry main,
But the loud deeps demand me back again.
Above, sharp rocks forbid access; around
Roar the wild waves; beneath, is sea profound!
No footing sure affords the faithless sand,
To stem too rapid, and too deep to stand.
If here I enter, my efforts are vain,
Dash*d on the cliffs, or heaved into the main;
Or round the island if my course I bend,
Where the ports open, or the shores descend,
Back to the seas the rolling surge may sweep,
And bury all my hopes beneath the deep.
Or some enormous whale the god may send
(For many such an Amphitrite attend);
Too well the turns of mortal chance I know,
And hate relentless of my heavenly foe.*
While thus he thought, a monstrous wave upbore
The chief, and dash*d him on the craggy shore;
Torn was his skin, nor had the ribs been whole,
But Instant Pallas enter*d in his soul.
Close to the cliff with both his hands he clung,
And stuck adherent, and suspended hung;
Till the huge surge roll*d off; then backward sweep
The refluent tides, and plunge him in the deep.
As when the polypus, from forth his cave
Torn with full force, reluctant beats the wave,
His ragged claws are stuck with stones and sands;
So the rough rock had shagg*d Ulysses hands,
And now had perish*d, whelm*d beneath the main,
The unhappy man; e*en fate had been in vain;
But all-subduing Pallas lent her power,
And prudence saved him in the needful hour.
Beyond the beating surge his course he bore,
(A wider circle, but in sight of shore),
With longing eyes, observing, to survey
Some smooth ascent, or safe sequester*d bay.
Between the parting rocks at length he spied
A failing stream with gentler waters glide;
Where to the seas the shelving shore declined,
And form*d a bay impervious to the wind.
To this calm port the glad Ulysses press*d,
And hail*d the river, and its god address*d:

*Whoe*er thou art, before whose stream unknown
I bend, a suppliant at thy watery throne,
Hear, azure king! nor let me fly in vain
To thee from Neptune and the raging main
Heaven hears and pities hapless men like me,
For sacred even to gods is misery:
Let then thy waters give the weary rest,
And save a suppliant, and a man distress*d.*

He pray*d, and straight the gentle stream subsides,
Detains the rushing current of his tides,
Before the wanderer smooths the watery way,
And soft receives him from the rolling sea.
That moment, fainting as he touch*d the shore,
He dropp*d his sinewy arms: his knees no more
Perform*d their office, or his weight upheld:
His swoln heart heaved; his bloated body swell*d:
From mouth and nose the briny torrent ran;
And lost in lassitude lay all the man,
Deprived of voice, of motion, and of breath;
The soul scarce waking in the arms of death.
Soon as warm life its wonted office found,
The mindful chief Leucothea*s scarf unbound;
Observant of her word, he turn*d aside
His head, and cast it on the rolling tide.
Behind him far, upon the purple waves,
The waters waft it, and the nymph receives.

Now parting from the stream, Ulysses found
A mossy bank with pliant rushes crown*d;
The bank he press*d, and gently kiss*d the ground;
Where on the flowery herb as soft he lay,
Thus to his soul the sage began to say:

*What will ye next ordain, ye powers on high!
And yet, ah yet, what fates are we to try?
Here by the stream, if I the night out-wear,
Thus spent already, how shall nature bear
The dews descending, and nocturnal air;
Or chilly vapours breathing from the flood
When morning rises?*If I take the wood,
And in thick shelter of innumerous boughs
Enjoy the comfort gentle sleep allows;
Though fenced from cold, and though my toil be pass*d,
What savage beasts may wander in the waste?
Perhaps I yet may fall a bloody prey
To prowling bears, or lions in the way.*

Thus long debating in himself he stood:
At length he took the passage to the wood,
Whose shady horrors on a rising brow
Waved high, and frown*d upon the stream below.
There grew two olives, closest of the grove,
With roots entwined, the branches interwove;
Alike their leaves, but not alike they smiled
With sister-fruits; one fertile, one was wild.
Nor here the sun*s meridian rays had power,
Nor wind sharp-piercing, nor the rushing shower;
The verdant arch so close its texture kept:
Beneath this covert great Ulysses crept.
Of gather*d leaves an ample bed he made
(Thick strewn by tempest through the bowery shade);
Where three at least might winter*s cold defy,
Though Boreas raged along the inclement sky.
This store with joy the patient hero found,
And, sunk amidst them, heap*d the leaves around.
As some poor peasant, fated to reside
Remote from neighbours in a forest wide,
Studious to save what human wants require,
In embers heap*d, preserves the seeds of fire:
Hid in dry foliage thus Ulysses lies,
Till Pallas pour*d soft slumbers on his eyes;
And golden dreams (the gift of sweet repose)
Lull*d all his cares, and banish*d all his woes.




BOOK VI.


ARGUMENT.


Pallas appearing in a dream in to Nausicaa (the daughter of Alcinous,
king of Ph*acia, commands her to descend to the river, and wash the
robes of state, in preparation for her nuptials. Nausicaa goes with her
handmaidens to the river; where, while the garments are spread on the
bank, they divert themselves in sports. Their voices awaken Ulysses,
who, addressing himself to the princess, is by her relieved and
clothed, and receives directions in what manner to apply to the king
and queen of the island.


While thus the weary wanderer sunk to rest,
And peaceful slumbers calmed his anxious breast,
The martial maid from heaven*s a*rial height
Swift to Ph*acia wing*d her rapid flight.
In elder times the soft Ph*acian train
In ease possess*d the wide Hyperian plain;
Till the Cyclopean race in arms arose,
A lawless nation of gigantic foes;
Then great Nausithous from Hyperia far,
Through seas retreating from the sounds of war,
The recreant nation to fair Scheria led,
Where never science rear*d her laurell*d head;
There round his tribes a strength of wall he raised;
To heaven the glittering domes and temples blazed;
Just to his realms, he parted grounds from grounds,
And shared the lands, and gave the lands their bounds.
Now in the silent grave the monarch lay,
And wise Alcinous held the legal sway.

To his high palace through the fields of air
The goddess shot; Ulysses was her care.
There, as the night in silence roll*d away,
A heaven of charms divine Nausicaa lay:
Through the thick gloom the shining portals blaze;
Two nymphs the portals guard, each nymph a Grace,
Light as the viewless air the warrior maid
Glides through the valves, and hovers round her head;
A favourite virgin*s blooming form she took,
From Dymas sprung, and thus the vision spoke:

*Oh Indolent! to waste thy hours away!
And sleep*st thou careless of the bridal day!
Thy spousal ornament neglected lies;
Arise, prepare the bridal train, arise!
A just applause the cares of dress impart,
And give soft transport to a parent*s heart.
Haste, to the limpid stream direct thy way,
When the gay morn unveils her smiling ray;
Haste to the stream! companion of thy care,
Lo, I thy steps attend, thy labours share.
Virgin, awake! the marriage hour is nigh,
See from their thrones thy kindred monarchs sigh!
The royal car at early dawn obtain,
And order mules obedient to the rein;
For rough the way, and distant rolls the wave,
Where their fair vests Ph*acian virgins lave,
In pomp ride forth; for pomp becomes the great
And majesty derives a grace from state.*
Then to the palaces of heaven she sails,
Incumbent on the wings of wafting gales;
The seat of gods; the regions mild of peace,
Full joy, and calm eternity of ease.
There no rude winds presume to shake the skies,
No rains descend, no snowy vapours rise;
But on immortal thrones the blest repose;
The firmament with living splendours glows.
Hither the goddess winged the a*rial way,
Through heaven*s eternal gates that blazed with day.

Now from her rosy car Aurora shed
The dawn, and all the orient flamed with red.
Up rose the virgin with the morning light,
Obedient to the vision of the night.
The queen she sought, the queen her hours bestowed
In curious works; the whirling spindle glow*d
With crimson threads, while busy damsels call
The snowy fleece, or twist the purpled wool.
Meanwhile Ph*acia*s peers in council sate;
From his high dome the king descends in state;
Then with a filial awe the royal maid
Approach*d him passing, and submissive said:

*Will my dread sire his ear regardful deign,
And may his child the royal car obtain?
Say, with my garments shall I bend my way?
Where through the vales the mazy waters stray?
A dignity of dress adorns the great,
And kings draw lustre from the robe of state.
Five sons thou hast; three wait the bridal day.
And spotless robes become the young and gay;
So when with praise amid the dance they shine,
By these my cares adorn*d that praise is mine.*

Thus she: but blushes ill-restrain*d betray
Her thoughts intentive on the bridal day,
The conscious sire the dawning blush survey*d,
And, smiling, thus bespoke the blooming maid
*My child, my darling joy, the car receive;
That, and whate*er our daughter asks, we give.*
Swift at the royal nod the attending train
The car prepare, the mules incessant rein,
The blooming virgin with despatchful cares
Tunics, and stoles, and robes imperial, bears.
The queen, assiduous to her train assigns
The sumptuous viands, and the flavorous wines.
The train prepare a cruse of curious mould,
A cruse of fragrance, form*d of burnish*d gold;
Odour divine! whose soft refreshing streams
Sleek the smooth skin, and scent the snowy limbs.

Now mounting the gay seat, the silken reins
Shine in her hand; along the sounding plains
Swift fly the mules; nor rode the nymph alone;
Around, a bevy of bright damsels shone.
They seek the cisterns where Ph*acian dames
Wash their fair garments in the limpid streams;
Where, gathering into depth from falling rills,
The lucid wave a spacious bason fills.
The mules, unharness*d, range beside the main,
Or crop the verdant herbage of the plain.

Then emulous the royal robes they lave,
And plunge the vestures in the cleansing wave
(The vestures cleansed o*erspread the shelly sand,
Their snowy lustre whitens all the strand);
Then with a short repast relieve their toil,
And o*er their limbs diffuse ambrosial oil;
And while the robes imbibe the solar ray,
O*er the green mead the sporting virgins play
(Their shining veils unbound). Along the skies,
Toss*d and retoss*d, the ball incessant flies.
They sport, they feast; Nausicaa lifts her voice,
And, warbling sweet, makes earth and heaven rejoice.

As when o*er Erymanth Diana roves,
Or wide T*ygetus* resounding groves;
A sylvan train the huntress queen surrounds,
Her rattling quiver from her shoulders sounds:
Fierce in the sport, along the mountain*s brow
They bay the boar, or chase the bounding roe;
High o*er the lawn, with more majestic pace,
Above the nymphs she treads with stately grace;
Distinguish*d excellence the goddess proves;
Exults Latona as the virgin moves.
With equal grace Nausicaa trod the plain,
And shone transcendent o*er the beauteous train.

Meantime (the care and favourite of the skies
Wrapp*d in imbowering shade, Ulysses lies,
His woes forgot! but Pallas now address*d
To break the bands of all-composing rest.
Forth from her snowy hand Nausicaa threw
The various ball; the ball erroneous flew
And swam the stream; loud shrieks the virgin train,
And the loud shriek redoubles from the main.
Waked by the shrilling sound, Ulysses rose,
And, to the deaf woods wailing, breathed his woes:

*Ah me! on what inhospitable coast,
On what new region is Ulysses toss*d;
Possess*d by wild barbarians fierce in arms;
Or men, whose bosom tender pity warms?
What sounds are these that gather from he shores?
The voice of nymphs that haunt the sylvan bowers,
The fair-hair*d Dryads of the shady wood;
Or azure daughters of the silver flood;
Or human voice? but issuing from the shades,
Why cease I straight to learn what sound invades?*

Then, where the grove with leaves umbrageous bends,
With forceful strength a branch the hero rends;
Around his loins the verdant cincture spreads
A wreathy foliage and concealing shades.
As when a lion in the midnight hours,
Beat by rude blasts, and wet with wintry showers,
Descends terrific from the mountains brow;
With living flames his rolling eye balls glow;
With conscious strength elate, he bends his way,
Majestically fierce, to seize his prey
(The steer or stag;) or, with keen hunger bold,
Spring o*er the fence and dissipates the fold.
No less a terror, from the neighbouring groves
(Rough from the tossing surge) Ulysses moves;
Urged on by want, and recent from the storms;
The brackish ooze his manly grace deforms.
Wide o*er the shore with many a piercing cry
To rocks, to caves, the frightened virgins fly;
All but the nymph; the nymph stood fix*d alone,
By Pallas arm*d with boldness not her own.
Meantime in dubious thought the king awaits,
And, self-considering, as he stands, debates;
Distant his mournful story to declare,
Or prostrate at her knee address the prayer.
But fearful to offend, by wisdom sway*d,
At awful distance he accosts the maid:

*If from the skies a goddess, or if earth
(Imperial virgin) boast thy glorious birth,
To thee I bend! If in that bright disguise
Thou visit earth, a daughter of the skies,
Hail, Dian, hail! the huntress of the groves
So shines majestic, and so stately moves,
So breathes an air divine! But if thy race
Be mortal, and this earth thy native place,
Blest is the father from whose loins you sprung,
Blest is the mother at whose breast you hung.
Blest are the brethren who thy blood divide,
To such a miracle of charms allied:
Joyful they see applauding princes gaze,
When stately in the dance you swim the harmonious maze.
But blest o*er all, the youth with heavenly charms,
Who clasps the bright perfection in his arms!
Never, I never view*d till this blest hour
Such finish*d grace! I gaze, and I adore!
Thus seems the palm with stately honours crown*d
By Ph*bus* altars; thus o*erlooks the ground;
The pride of Delos. (By the Delian coast,
I voyaged, leader of a warrior-host,
But ah, how changed! from thence my sorrow flows;
O fatal voyage, source of all my woes;)
Raptured I stood, and as this hour amazed,
With reverence at the lofty wonder gazed:
Raptured I stand! for earth ne*er knew to bear
A plant so stately, or a nymph so fair.
Awed from access, I lift my suppliant hands;
For Misery, O queen! before thee stands.
Twice ten tempestuous nights I roll*d, resign*d
To roaring billows, and the warring wind;
Heaven bade the deep to spare; but heaven, my foe,
Spares only to inflict some mightier woe.
Inured to cares, to death in all its forms;
Outcast I rove, familiar with the storms.
Once more I view the face of human kind:
Oh let soft pity touch thy generous mind!
Unconscious of what air I breathe, I stand
Naked, defenceless on a narrow land.
Propitious to my wants a vest supply
To guard the wretched from the inclement sky:
So may the gods, who heaven and earth control,
Crown the chaste wishes of thy virtuous soul,
On thy soft hours their choicest blessings shed;
Blest with a husband be thy bridal bed;
Blest be thy husband with a blooming race,
And lasting union crown your blissful days.
The gods, when they supremely bless, bestow
Firm union on their favourites below;
Then envy grieves, with inly-pining hate;
The good exult, and heaven is in our state.*

To whom the nymph: *O stranger, cease thy care;
Wise is thy soul, but man is born to bear;
Jove weighs affairs of earth in dubious scales,
And the good suffers, while the bad prevails.
Bear, with a soul resign*d, the will of Jove;
Who breathes, must mourn: thy woes are from above.
But since thou tread*st our hospitable shore,
*Tis mine to bid the wretched grieve no more,
To clothe the naked, and thy way to guide.
Know, the Ph*acian tribes this land divide;
From great Alcinous* royal loins I spring,
A happy nation, and a happy king.*

Then to her maids: *Why, why, ye coward train,
These fears, this flight? ye fear, and fly in vain.
Dread ye a foe? dismiss that idle dread,
*Tis death with hostile step these shores to tread;
Safe in the love of heaven, an ocean flows
Around our realm, a barrier from the foes;
*Tis ours this son of sorrow to relieve,
Cheer the sad heart, nor let affliction grieve.
By Jove the stranger and the poor are sent;
And what to those we give to Jove is lent.
Then food supply, and bathe his fainting limbs
Where waving shades obscure the mazy streams.*

Obedient to the call, the chief they guide
To the calm current of the secret tide;
Close by the stream a royal dress they lay,
A vest and robe, with rich embroidery gay;
Then unguents in a vase of gold supply,
That breathed a fragrance through the balmy sky.

To them the king: *No longer I detain
Your friendly care: retire, ye virgin train!
Retire, while from my wearied limbs I lave
The foul pollution of the briny wave.
Ye gods! since this worn frame refection knew,
What scenes have I surveyed of dreadful view!
But, nymphs, recede! sage chastity denies
To raise the blush, or pain the modest eyes.*

The nymphs withdrawn, at once into the tide
Active he bounds; the flashing waves divide
O*er all his limbs his hands the waves diffuse,
And from his locks compress the weedy ooze;
The balmy oil, a fragrant shower, be sheds;
Then, dressed, in pomp magnificently treads.
The warrior-goddess gives his frame to shine
With majesty enlarged, and air divine:
Back from his brows a length of hair unfurls,
His hyacinthine locks descend in wavy curls.
As by some artist, to whom Vulcan gives
His skill divine, a breathing statue lives;
By Pallas taught, he frames the wondrous mould,
And o*er the silver pours the fusile gold
So Pallas his heroic frame improves
With heavenly bloom, and like a god he moves.
A fragrance breathes around; majestic grace
Attends his steps: the astonished virgins gaze.
Soft he reclines along the murmuring seas,
Inhaling freshness from the fanning breeze.

The wondering nymph his glorious port survey*d,
And to her damsels, with amazement, said:

*Not without care divine the stranger treads
This land of joy; his steps some godhead leads:
Would Jove destroy him, sure he had been driven
Far from this realm, the favourite isle of heaven.
Late, a sad spectacle of woe, he trod
The desert sands, and now he looks a god.
Oh heaven! in my connubial hour decree
This man my spouse, or such a spouse as he!
But haste, the viands and the bowl provide.*
The maids the viands and the bowl supplied:
Eager he fed, for keen his hunger raged,
And with the generous vintage thirst assuaged.

Now on return her care Nausicaa bends,
The robes resumes, the glittering car ascends,
Far blooming o*er the field; and as she press*d
The splendid seat, the listening chief address*d:

*Stranger, arise! the sun rolls down the day.
Lo, to the palace I direct thy way;
Where, in high state, the nobles of the land
Attend my royal sire, a radiant band
But hear, though wisdom in thy soul presides,
Speaks from thy tongue, and every action guides;
Advance at distance, while I pass the plain
Where o*er the furrows waves the golden grain;
Alone I reascend*With airy mounds
A strength of wall the guarded city bounds;
The jutting land two ample bays divides:
Full through the narrow mouths descend the tides;
The spacious basons arching rocks enclose,
A sure defence from every storm that blows.
Close to the bay great Neptune*s fane adjoins;
And near, a forum flank*d with marble shines,
Where the bold youth, the numerous fleets to store,
Shape the broad sail, or smooth the taper oar:
For not the bow they bend, nor boast the skill
To give the feather*d arrow wings to kill;
But the tall mast above the vessel rear,
Or teach the fluttering sail to float in air.
They rush into the deep with eager joy,
Climb the steep surge, and through the tempest fly;
A proud, unpolish*d race*To me belongs
The care to shun the blast of slanderous tongues;
Lest malice, prone the virtuous to defame,
Thus with wild censure taint my spotless name:
*What stranger this whom thus Nausicaa leads!
Heavens, with what graceful majesty he treads!
Perhaps a native of some distant shore,
The future consort of her bridal hour:
Or rather some descendant of the skies;
Won by her prayer, the a*rial bridegroom flies,
Heaven on that hour its choicest influence shed,
That gave a foreign spouse to crown her bed!
All, all the godlike worthies that adorn
This realm, she flies: Ph*acia is her scorn.*
And just the blame: for female innocence
Not only flies the guilt, but shuns the offence:
The unguarded virgin, as unchaste, I blame;
And the least freedom with the sex is shame,
Till our consenting sires a spouse provide,
And public nuptials justify the bride,
But would*st thou soon review thy native plain?
Attend, and speedy thou shalt pass the main:
Nigh where a grove with verdant poplars crown*d,
To Pallas sacred, shades the holy ground,
We bend our way; a bubbling fount distills
A lucid lake, and thence descends in rills;
Around the grove, a mead with lively green
Falls by degrees, and forms a beauteous scene;
Here a rich juice the royal vineyard pours;
And there the garden yields a waste of flowers.
Hence lies the town, as far as to the ear
Floats a strong shout along the waves of air.
There wait embower*d, while I ascend alone
To great Alcinous on his royal throne.
Arrived, advance, impatient of delay,
And to the lofty palace bend thy way:
The lofty palace overlooks the town,
From every dome by pomp superior known;
A child may point the way. With earnest gait
Seek thou the queen along the rooms of state;
Her royal hand a wondrous work designs,
Around a circle of bright damsels shines;
Part twist the threads, and part the wool dispose,
While with the purple orb the spindle glows.
High on a throne, amid the Scherian powers,
My royal father shares the genial hours:
But to the queen thy mournful tale disclose,
With the prevailing eloquence of woes:
So shalt thou view with joy thy natal shore,
Though mountains rise between and oceans roar.*

She added not, but waving, as she wheel*d,
The silver scourge, it glitter*d o*er the field;
With skill the virgin guides the embroider*d rein,
Slow rolls the car before the attending train,
Now whirling down the heavens, the golden day
Shot through the western clouds a dewy ray;
The grove they reach, where, from the sacred shade,
To Pallas thus the pensive hero pray*d:

*Daughter of Jove! whose arms in thunder wield
The avenging bolt, and shake the dreadful shield;
Forsook by thee, in vain I sought thy aid
When booming billows closed above my bead;
Attend, unconquer*d maid! accord my vows,
Bid the Great hear, and pitying, heal my woes.*

This heard Minerva, but forbore to fly
(By Neptune awed) apparent from the sky;
Stern god! who raged with vengeance, unrestrain*d.
Till great Ulysses hail*d his native land.




BOOK VII.


ARGUMENT.
THE COURT OF ALCINOUS.


The princess Nausicaa returns to the city and Ulysses soon after
follows thither. He is met by Pallas in the form of a young virgin, who
guides him to the palace, and directs him in what manner to address the
queen Arete. She then involves him in a mist which causes him to pass
invisible. The palace and gardens of Alcinous described. Ulysses
falling at the feet of the queen, the mist disperses, the Ph*acians
admire, and receive him with respect. The queen inquiring by what means
he had the garments he then wore, be relates to her and Alcinous his
departure from Calypso, and his arrival in their dominions.
    The same day continues, and the book ends with the night.


The patient heavenly man thus suppliant pray*d;
While the slow mules draws on the imperial maid;
Through the proud street she moves, the public gaze;
The turning wheel before the palace stays.
With ready love her brothers, gathering round,
Received the vestures, and the mules unbound.
She seeks the bridal bower: a matron there
The rising fire supplies with busy care,
Whose charms in youth her father*s heart inflamed,
Now worn with age, Eurymedusa named;
The captive dame Ph*acian rovers bore,
Snatch*d from Epirus, her sweet native shore
(A grateful prize), and in her bloom bestow*d
On good Alcinous, honor*d as a god;
Nurse of Nausicaa from her infant years,
And tender second to a mother*s cares.

Now from the sacred thicket where he lay,
To town Ulysses took the winding way.
Propitious Pallas, to secure her care,
Around him spread a veil of thicken*d air;
To shun the encounter of the vulgar crowd,
Insulting still, inquisitive and loud.
When near the famed Ph*acian walls he drew,
The beauteous city opening to his view,
His step a virgin met, and stood before:
A polish*d urn the seeming virgin bore,
And youthful smiled; but in the low disguise
Lay hid the goddess with the azure eyes.

*Show me, fair daughter (thus the chief demands),
The house of him who rules these happy lands
Through many woes and wanderings, do I come
To good Alcinous* hospitable dome.
Far from my native coast, I rove alone,
A wretched stranger, and of all unknown!*

The goddess answer*d: *Father, I obey,
And point the wandering traveller his way:
Well known to me the palace you inquire,
For fast beside it dwells my honour*d sire:
But silent march, nor greet the common train
With question needless, or inquiry vain;
A race of ragged mariners are these,
Unpolish*d men, and boisterous as their seas
The native islanders alone their care,
And hateful he who breathes a foreign air.
These did the ruler of the deep ordain
To build proud navies, and command the main;
On canvas wings to cut the watery way;
No bird so light, no thought so swift as they.*

Thus having spoke, the unknown celestial leads:
The footsteps of the deity he treads,
And secret moves along the crowded space,
Unseen of all the rude Ph*acian race.
(So Pallas order*d, Pallas to their eyes
The mist objected, and condensed the skies.)
The chief with wonder sees the extended streets,
The spreading harbours, and the riding fleets;
He next their princes* lofty domes admires,
In separate islands, crown*d with rising spires;
And deep entrenchments, and high walls of stone.
That gird the city like a marble zone.
At length the kingly palace-gates he view*d;
There stopp*d the goddess, and her speech renew*d;

*My task is done: the mansion you inquire
Appears before you: enter, and admire.
High-throned, and feasting, there thou shalt behold
The sceptred rulers. Fear not, but be bold:
A decent boldness ever meets with friends,
Succeeds, and even a stranger recommends
First to the queen prefer a suppliant*s claim,
Alcinous* queen, Arete is her name.
The same her parents, and her power the same.
For know, from ocean*s god Nausithous sprung,
And Perib*a, beautiful and young
(Eurymedon*s last hope, who ruled of old
The race of giants, impious, proud, and bold:
Perish*d the nation in unrighteous war,
Perish*d the prince, and left this only heir),
Who now, by Neptune*s amorous power compress*d,
Produced a monarch that his people bless*d,
Father and prince of the Ph*acian name;
From him Rhexenor and Alcinous came.
The first by Ph*bus* hurtling arrows fired,
New from his nuptials, hapless youth! expired.
No son survived; Arete heir*d his state,
And her, Alcinous chose his royal mate.
With honours yet to womankind unknown.
This queen he graces, and divides the throne;
In equal tenderness her sons conspire,
And all the children emulate their sire.
When through the streets she gracious deigns to move
(The public wonder and the public love),
The tongues of all with transport sound her praise,
The eyes of all, as on a goddess, gaze.
She feels the triumph of a generous breast;
To heal divisions, to relieve the oppress*d;
In virtue rich; in blessing others, bless*d.
(to then secure, thy humble suit prefer
And owe thy country and thy friends to her.*

With that the goddess deign*d no longer stay,
But o*er the world of waters wing*d her way;
Forsaking Scheria*s ever-pleasing shore,
The winds to Marathon the virgin bore:
Thence, where proud Athens rears her towery head,
With opening streets and shining structures spread,
She pass*d, delighted with the well-known seats;
And to Erectheus* sacred dome retreats.

Meanwhile Ulysses at the palace waits,
There stops, and anxious with his soul debates,
Fix*d in amaze before the royal gates.
The front appear*d with radiant splendours gay,
Bright as the lamp of night, or orb of day,
The walls were massy brass: the cornice high
Blue metals crown*d in colours of the sky,
Rich plates of gold the folding doors incase;
The pillars silver, on a brazen base;
Silver the lintels deep-projecting o*er,
And gold the ringlets that command the door.
Two rows of stately dogs, on either hand,
In sculptured gold and labour*d silver stood
These Vulcan form*d with art divine, to wait
Immortal guardians at Alcinous* gate;
Alive each animated frame appears,
And still to live beyond the power of years,
Fair thrones within from space to space were raised,
Where various carpets with embroidery blessed,
The work of matrons: these the princes press*d,
Day following day, a long-continued feast.
Refulgent pedestals the walls surround,
Which boys of gold with flaming torches crown*d;
The polish*d ore, reflecting every ray,
Blazed on the banquets with a double day.
Full fifty handmaids form the household train;
Some turn the mill, or sift the golden grain;
Some ply the loom; their busy fingers move
Like poplar-leaves when Zephyr fans the grove.
Not more renown*d the men of Scheria*s isle
For sailing arts and all the naval toil,
Than works of female skill their women*s pride,
The flying shuttle through the threads to guide:
Pallas to these her double gifts imparts,
Incentive genius, and industrious arts.

Close to the gates a spacious garden lies,
From storms defended and inclement skies.
Four acres was the allotted space of ground,
Fenced with a green enclosure all around.
Tall thriving trees confess*d the fruitful mould:
The reddening apple ripens here to gold.
Here the blue fig with luscious juice o*erflows,
With deeper red the full pomegranate glows;
The branch here bends beneath the weighty pear,
And verdant olives flourish round the year,
The balmy spirit of the western gale
Eternal breathes on fruits, unthought to fail:
Each dropping pear a following pear supplies,
On apples apples, figs on figs arise:
The same mild season gives the blooms to blow,
The buds to harden, and the fruits to grow.

Here order*d vines in equal ranks appear,
With all the united labours of the year;
Some to unload the fertile branches run,
Some dry the blackening clusters in the sun,
Others to tread the liquid harvest join:
The groaning presses foam with floods of wine
Here are the vines in early flower descried,
Here grapes discolour*d on the sunnyside,
And there in autumn*s richest purple dyed,

Beds of all various herbs, for ever green,
In beauteous order terminate the scene.

Two plenteous fountains the whole prospect crown*d
This through the gardens leads its streams around
Visits each plant, and waters all the ground;
While that in pipes beneath the palace flows,
And thence its current on the town bestows:
To various use their various streams they bring,
The people one, and one supplies the king.

Such were the glories which the gods ordain*d,
To grace Alcinous, and his happy land.
E*en from the chief whom men and nations knew,
The unwonted scene surprise and rapture drew;
In pleasing thought he ran the prospect o*er,
Then hasty enter*d at the lofty door.
Night now approaching, in the palace stand,
With goblets crown*d, the rulers of the land;
Prepared for rest, and offering to the god
Who bears the virtue of the sleepy rod,
Unseen he glided through the joyous crowd,
With darkness circled, and an ambient cloud.
Direct to great Alcinous* throne he came,
And prostrate fell before the imperial dame.
Then from around him dropp*d the veil of night;
Sudden he shines, and manifest to sight.
The nobles gaze, with awful fear oppress*d;
Silent they gaze, and eye the godlike guest.

*Daughter of great Rhexenor! (thus began,
Low at her knees, the much-enduring man)
To thee, thy consort, and this royal train,
To all that share the blessings of your reign,
A suppliant bends: oh pity human woe!
*Tis what the happy to the unhappy owe.
A wretched exile to his country send,
Long worn with griefs, and long without a friend
So may the gods your better days increase,
And all your joys descend on all your race;
So reign for ever on your country*s breast,
Your people blessing, by your people bless*d!*

Then to the genial hearth he bow*d his face,
And humbled in the ashes took his place.
Silence ensued. The eldest first began,
Echeneus sage, a venerable man!
Whose well-taught mind the present age surpass*d,
And join*d to that the experience of the last.
Fit words attended on his weighty sense,
And mild persuasion flow*d in eloquence.

*Oh sight (he cried) dishonest and unjust!
A guest, a stranger, seated in the dust!
To raise the lowly suppliant from the ground
Befits a monarch. Lo! the peers around
But wait thy word, the gentle guest to grace,
And seat him fair in some distinguish*d place.
Let first the herald due libation pay
To Jove, who guides the wanderer on his way:
Then set the genial banquet in his view,
And give the stranger-guest a stranger*s due.*

His sage advice the listening king obeys,
He stretch*d his hand the prudent chief to raise,
And from his seat Laodamas removed
(The monarch*s offspring, and his best-beloved);
There next his side the godlike hero sate;
With stars of silver shone the bed of state.
The golden ewer a beauteous handmaid brings,
Replenish*d from the cool translucent springs,
Whose polish*d vase with copious streams supplies
A silver layer of capacious size.
The table next in regal order spread,
The glittering canisters are heap*d with bread:
Viands of various kinds invite the taste,
Of choicest sort and savour, rich repast!
Thus feasting high, Alcinous gave the sign,
And bade the herald pour the rosy wine;
*Let all around the due libation pay
To Jove, who guides the wanderer on his way.*

He said. Pontonous heard the king*s command;
The circling goblet moves from hand to hand;
Each drinks the juice that glads the heart of man.
Alcinous then, with aspect mild, began:

*Princes and peers, attend; while we impart
To you the thoughts of no inhuman heart.
Now pleased and satiate from the social rite
Repair we to the blessings of the night;
But with the rising day, assembled here,
Let all the elders of the land appear,
Pious observe our hospitable laws,
And Heaven propitiate in the stranger*s cause;
Then join*d in council, proper means explore
Safe to transport him to the wished-for shore
(How distant that, imports us not to know,
Nor weigh the labour, but relieve the woe).
Meantime, nor harm nor anguish let him bear
This interval, Heaven trusts him to our care
But to his native land our charge resign*d,
Heaven*s is his life to come, and all the woes behind.
Then must he suffer what the Fates ordain;
For Fate has wove the thread of life with pain!
And twins, e*en from the birth, are Misery and Man!
But if, descended from the Olympian bower,
Gracious approach us some immortal power;
If in that form thou comest a guest divine:
Some high event the conscious gods design.
As yet, unbid they never graced our feast,
The solemn sacrifice call*d down the guest;
Then manifest of Heaven the vision stood,
And to our eyes familiar was the god.
Oft with some favour*d traveller they stray,
And shine before him all the desert way;
With social intercourse, and face to face,
The friends and guardians of our pious race.
So near approach we their celestial kind,
By justice, truth, and probity of mind;
As our dire neighbours of Cyclopean birth
Match in fierce wrong the giant-sons of earth.*

*Let no such thought (with modest grace rejoin*d
The prudent Greek) possess the royal mind.
Alas! a mortal, like thyself, am I;
No glorious native of yon azure sky:
In form, ah how unlike their heavenly kind!
How more inferior in the gifts of mind!
Alas, a mortal! most oppress*d of those
Whom Fate has loaded with a weight of woes;
By a sad train of Miseries alone
Distinguish*d long, and second now to none!
By Heaven*s high will compell*d from shore to shore;
With Heaven*s high will prepared to suffer more.
What histories of toil could I declare!
But still long-wearied nature wants repair;
Spent with fatigue, and shrunk with pining fast,
My craving bowels still require repast.
Howe*er the noble, suffering mind may grieve
Its load of anguish, and disdain to live,
Necessity demands our daily bread;
Hunger is insolent, and will be fed.
But finish, oh ye peers! what you propose,
And let the morrow*s dawn conclude my woes.
Pleased will I suffer all the gods ordain,
To see my soil, my son, my friends again.
That view vouchsafed, let instant death surprise
With ever-during shade these happy eyes!*

The assembled peers with general praise approved
His pleaded reason, and the suit he moved.
Each drinks a full oblivion of his cares,
And to the gifts of balmy sleep repairs,
Ulysses in the regal walls alone
Remain*d: beside him, on a splendid throne,
Divine Arete and Alcinous shone.
The queen, on nearer view, the guest survey*d,
Rob*d in the garments her own hands had made,
Not without wonder seen. Then thus began,
Her words addressing to the godlike man:

*Camest thou hither, wondrous stranger! say,
From lands remote and o*er a length of sea?
Tell, then, whence art thou? whence, that princely air?
And robes like these, so recent and so fair?*

*Hard is the task, O princess! you impose
(Thus sighing spoke the man of many woes),
The long, the mournful series to relate
Of all my sorrows sent by Heaven and Fate!
Yet what you ask, attend. An island lies
Beyond these tracts, and under other skies,
Ogygia named, in Ocean*s watery arms;
Where dwells Calypso, dreadful in her charms!
Remote from gods or men she holds her reign,
Amid the terrors of a rolling main.
Me, only me, the hand of fortune bore,
Unblest! to tread that interdicted shore:
When Jove tremendous in the sable deeps
Launch*d his red lightning at our scattered ships;
Then, all my fleet and all my followers lost.
Sole on a plank on boiling surges toss*d,
Heaven drove my wreck the Ogygian Isle to find,
Full nine days floating to the wave and wind.
Met by the goddess there with open arms,
She bribed my stay with more than human charms;
Nay, promised, vainly promised, to bestow
Immortal life, exempt from age and woe;
But all her blandishments successless prove,
To banish from my breast my country*s love.
I stay reluctant seven continued years,
And water her ambrosial couch with tears,
The eighth she voluntary moves to part,
Or urged by Jove, or her own changeful heart.
A raft was formed to cross the surging sea;
Herself supplied the stores and rich array,
And gave the gales to waft me on my way,
In seventeen days appear*d your pleasing coast,
And woody mountains half in vapours lost.
Joy touched my soul; my soul was joy*d in vain,
For angry Neptune roused the raging main;
The wild winds whistle, and the billows roar;
The splitting raft the furious tempest tore;
And storms vindictive intercept the shore.
Soon as their rage subsides, the seas I brave
With naked force, and shoot along the wave,
To reach this isle; but there my hopes were lost,
The surge impell*d me on a craggy coast.
I chose the safer sea, and chanced to find
A river*s mouth impervious to the wind,
And clear of rocks. I fainted by the flood;
Then took the shelter of the neighbouring wood.
*Twas night, and, covered in the foliage deep,
Jove plunged my senses in the death of sleep.
All night I slept, oblivious of my pain:
Aurora dawned and Ph*bus shined in vain,
Nor, till oblique he sloped his evening ray,
Had Somnus dried the balmy dews away.
Then female voices from the shore I heard:
A maid amidst them, goddess-like appear*d;
To her I sued, she pitied my distress;
Like thee in beauty, nor in virtue less.
Who from such youth could hope considerate care?
In youth and beauty wisdom is but rare!
She gave me life, relieved with just supplies
My wants, and lent these robes that strike your eyes.
This is the truth: and oh, ye powers on high!
Forbid that want should sink me to a lie.*

To this the king: *Our daughter but express*d
Her cares imperfect to our godlike guest.
Suppliant to her, since first he chose to pray,
Why not herself did she conduct the way,
And with her handmaids to our court convey?*

*Hero and king (Ulysses thus replied)
Nor blame her faultless nor suspect of pride:
She bade me follow in the attendant train;
But fear and reverence did my steps detain,
Lest rash suspicion might alarm thy mind:
Man*s of a jealous and mistaken kind.*

*Far from my soul (he cried) the gods efface
All wrath ill-grounded, and suspicion base!
Whate*er is honest, stranger, I approve,
And would to Ph*bus, Pallas, and to Jove,
Such as thou art, thy thought and mine were one,
Nor thou unwilling to be called my son.
In such alliance couldst thou wish to join,
A palace stored with treasures should be thine.
But if reluctant, who shall force thy stay?
Jove bids to set the stranger on his way,
And ships shall wait thee with the morning ray.
Till then, let slumber cross thy careful eyes:
The wakeful mariners shall watch the skies,
And seize the moment when the breezes rise:
Then gently waft thee to the pleasing shore,
Where thy soul rests, and labour is no more.
Far as Euboea though thy country lay,
Our ships with ease transport thee in a day.
Thither of old, earth*s giant son to view,
On wings of wind with Rhadamanth they flew;
This land, from whence their morning course begun,
Saw them returning with the setting sun.
Your eyes shall witness and confirm my tale,
Our youth how dexterous, and how fleet our sail,
When justly timed with equal sweep they row,
And ocean whitens in long tracks below.*

Thus he. No word the experienced man replies,
But thus to heaven (and heavenward lifts his eyes):
*O Jove! O father! what the king accords
Do thou make perfect! sacred be his words!
Wide o*er the world Alcinous* glory shine!
Let fame be his, and ah! my country mine!*

Meantime Arete, for the hour of rest,
Ordains the fleecy couch, and covering vest;
Bids her fair train the purple quilts prepare,
And the thick carpets spread with busy care.
With torches blazing in their hands they pass*d,
And finish*d all their queen*s command with haste:
Then gave the signal to the willing guest:
He rose with pleasure, and retired to rest.
There, soft extended, to the murmuring sound
Of the high porch, Ulysses sleeps profound!
Within, released from cares, Alcinous lies;
And fast beside were closed Arete*s eyes.




BOOK VIII.


Alcinous calls a council, in which it is resolved to transport Ulysses
into his country. After which splendid entertainments are made, where
the celebrated musician and poet, Demodocus, plays and sings to the
guests. They next proceed to the games, the race, the wrestling,
discus, &c., where Ulysses casts a prodigious length, to the admiration
of all the spectators. They return again to the banquet and Demodocus
sings the loves of Mars and Venus. Ulysses, after a compliment to the
poet, desires him to sing the introduction of the wooden horse into
Troy, which subject provoking his tears, Alcinous inquires of his guest
his name, parentage, and fortunes.


Now fair Aurora lifts her golden ray,
And all the ruddy orient flames with day:
Alcinous, and the chief, with dawning light,
Rose instant from the slumbers of the night;
Then to the council-seat they bend their way,
And fill the shining thrones along the bay.

Meanwhile Minerva, in her guardian care,
Shoots from the starry vault through fields of air;
In form, a herald of the king, she flies
From peer to peer, and thus incessant cries;

*Nobles and chiefs who rule Ph*acia*s states,
The king in council your attendance waits;
A prince of grace divine your aid implores,
O*er unknown seas arrived from unknown shores.*

She spoke, and sudden with tumultuous sounds
Of thronging multitudes the shore rebounds:
At once the seats they fill; and every eye
Glazed, as before some brother of the sky.
Pallas with grace divine his form improves,
More high he treads, and more enlarged he moves:
She sheds celestial bloom, regard to draw;
And gives a dignity of mien, to awe;
With strength, the future prize of fame to play,
And gather all the honours of the day.

Then from his glittering throne Alcinous rose;
*Attend (he cried) while we our will disclose.
Your present aid this godlike stranger craves,
Toss*d by rude tempest through a war of waves;
Perhaps from realms that view the rising day,
Or nations subject to the western ray.
Then grant, what here all sons of woe obtain
(For here affliction never pleads in vain);
Be chosen youth prepared, expert to try
The vast profound and bid the vessel fly;
Launch the tall back, and order every oar;
Then in our court indulge the genial hour.
Instant, you sailors to this task attend;
Swift to the palace, all ye peers ascend;
Let none to strangers honours due disclaim:
Be there Demodocus the bard of fame,
Taught by the gods to please, when high he sings
The vocal lay, responsive to the strings.*

Thus spoke the prince; the attending peers obey;
In state they move; Alcinous heads the way
Swift to Demodocus the herald flies,
At once the sailors to their charge arise;
They launch the vessel, and unfurl the sails,
And stretch the swelling canvas to the gales;
Then to the palace move: a gathering throng,
Youth, and white age, tumultuous pour along.
Now all accesses to the dome are fill*d;
Eight boars, the choicest of the herd, are kill*d;
Two beeves, twelve fatlings, from the flock they bring
To crown the feast; so wills the bounteous king.
The herald now arrives, and guides along
The sacred master of celestial song;
Dear to the Muse! who gave his days to flow
With mighty blessings, mix*d with mighty woe;
With clouds of darkness quench*d his visual ray,
But gave him skill to raise the lofty lay.
High on a radiant throne sublime in state,
Encircled by huge multitudes, he sate;
With silver shone the throne; his lyre, well strung
To rapturous sounds, at hand Poutonous hung.
Before his seat a polish*d table shines,
And a full goblet foams with generous wines;
His food a herald bore; and now they fed;
And now the rage of craving hunger fled.

Then, fired by all the Muse, aloud he sings
The mighty deeds of demigods and kings;
From that fierce wrath the noble song arose,
That made Ulysses and Achilles foes;
How o*er the feast they doom the fall of Troy;
The stern debate Atrides hears with joy;
For Heaven foretold the contest, when he trod
The marble threshold of the Delphic god,
Curious to learn the counsels of the sky,
Ere yet he loosed the rage of war on Troy.

Touch*d at the song, Ulysses straight resign*d
To soft affliction all his manly mind.
Before his eyes the purple vest he drew,
Industrious to conceal the falling dew;
But when the music paused, he ceased to shed
The flowing tear, and raised his drooping head;
And, lifting to the gods a goblet crown*d,
He pour*d a pure libation to the ground.

Transported with the song, the listening train
Again with loud applause demand the strain;
Again Ulysses veil*d his pensive head.
Again unmann*d, a shower of sorrows shed;
Conceal*d he wept; the king observed alone
The silent tear, and heard the secret groan;
Then to the bard aloud**O cease to sing,
Dumb be thy voice and mute the harmonious string;
Enough the feast has pleased, enough the power
Of heavenly song has crown*d the genial hour!
Incessant in the games your strength display,
Contest, ye brave the honours of the day!
That pleased the admiring stranger may proclaim
In distant regions the Ph*acian fame:
None wield the gauntlet with so dire a sway,
Or swifter in the race devour the way;
None in the leap spring with so strong a bound,
Or firmer, in the wrestling, press the ground.*

Thus spoke the king; the attending peers obey;
In state they move, Alcinous lends the way;
His golden lyre Demodocus unstrung,
High on a column in the palace hung;
And guided by a herald*s guardian cares,
Majestic to the lists of Fame repairs.

Now swarms the populace: a countless throng,
Youth and hoar age; and man drives man along.
The games begin; ambitious of the prize,
Acroneus, Thoon, and Eretmeus rise;
The prize Ocyalus and Prymneus claim,
Anchialus and Ponteus, chiefs of fame.
There Proreus, Nautes, Eratreus, appear
And famed Amphialus, Polyneus* heir;
Euryalus, like Mars terrific, rose,
When clad in wrath he withers hosts of foes;
Naubolides with grace unequall*d shone,
Or equall*d by Laodamas alone.
With these came forth Ambasineus the strong:
And three brave sons, from great Alcinous sprung.

Ranged in a line the ready racers stand,
Start from the goal, and vanish o*er the strand:
Swift as on wings of winds, upborne they fly,
And drifts of rising dust involve the sky.
Before the rest, what space the hinds allow
Between the mule and ox, from plough to plough,
Clytonius sprung: he wing*d the rapid way,
And bore the unrivall*d honours of the day.
With fierce embrace the brawny wrestlers join;
The conquest, great Euryalus, is thine.
Amphialus sprung forward with a bound,
Superior in the leap, a length of ground.
From Elatreus* strong arm the discus flies,
And sings with unmatch*d force along the skies.
And Laodam whirls high, with dreadful sway,
The gloves of death, victorious in the fray.

While thus the peerage in the games contends,
In act to speak, Laodamas ascends.

*O friends (he cries), the stranger seems well skill*d
To try the illustrious labours of the field:
I deem him brave: then grant the brave man*s claim,
Invite the hero to his share of fame.
What nervous arms he boasts! how firm his tread!
His limbs how turn*d! how broad his shoulders spread!
By age unbroke!*but all-consuming care
Destroys perhaps the strength that time would spare:
Dire is the ocean, dread in all its forms!
Man must decay when man contends with storms.*

*Well hast thou spoke (Euryalus replies):
Thine is the guest, invite him thou to rise.*
Swift as the word, advancing from the crowd,
He made obeisance, and thus spoke aloud:

*Vouchsafes the reverend stranger to display
His manly worth, and share the glorious day?
Father, arise! for thee thy port proclaims
Expert to conquer in the solemn games.
To fame arise! for what more fame can yield
Than the swift race, or conflict of the field?
Steal from corroding care one transient day,
To glory give the space thou hast to stay;
Short is the time, and lo! e*en now the gales
Call thee aboard, and stretch the swelling sails.*

To whom with sighs Ulysses gave reply:
*Ah why the ill-suiting pastime must I try?
To gloomy care my thoughts alone are free;
Ill the gay sports with troubled hearts agree;
Sad from my natal hour my days have ran,
A much-afflicted, much-enduring man!
Who, suppliant to the king and peers, implores
A speedy voyage to his native shore.*

*Wide wanders, Laodam, thy erring tongue
The sports of glory to the brave belong
(Retorts Euryalus): he bears no claim
Among the great, unlike the sons of Fame.
A wandering merchant he frequents the main
Some mean seafarer in pursuit of gain;
Studious of freight, in naval trade well skill*d,
But dreads the athletic labours of the field.*

Incensed, Ulysses with a frown replies:
*O forward to proclaim thy soul unwise!
With partial hands the gods their gifts dispense;
Some greatly think, some speak with manly sense;
Here Heaven an elegance of form denies,
But wisdom the defect of form supplies;
This man with energy of thought controls,
And steals with modest violence our souls;
He speaks reservedly, but he speaks with force,
Nor can one word be changed but for a worse;
In public more than mortal he appears,
And as he moves, the praising crowd reveres;
While others, beauteous as the etherial kind,
The nobler portion went, a knowing mind,
In outward show Heaven gives thee to excel.
But Heaven denies the praise of thinking well
I*ll bear the brave a rude ungovern*d tongue,
And, youth, my generous soul resents the wrong.
Skill*d in heroic exercise, I claim
A post of honour with the sons of Fame.
Such was my boast while vigour crown*d my days,
Now care surrounds me, and my force decays;
Inured a melancholy part to bear
In scenes of death, by tempest and by war
Yet thus by woes impair*d, no more I waive
To prove the hero*slander stings the brave.*

Then gliding forward with a furious bound
He wrench*d a rocky fragment from the ground
By far more ponderous, and more huge by far
Than what Ph*acia*s sons discharged in air.
Fierce from his arm the enormous load he flings;
Sonorous through the shaded air it sings;
Couch*d to the earth, tempestuous as it flies,
The crowd gaze upward while it cleaves the skies.
Beyond all marks, with many a giddy round
Down-rushing, it up-turns a hill of ground.

That Instant Pallas, bursting from a cloud,
Fix*d a distinguish*d mark, and cried aloud:

*E*en he who, sightless, wants his visual ray
May by his touch alone award the day:
Thy signal throw transcends the utmost bound
Of every champion by a length of ground:
Securely bid the strongest of the train
Arise to throw; the strongest throws in vain.*

She spoke: and momentary mounts the sky:
The friendly voice Ulysses hears with joy.
Then thus aloud (elate with decent pride)
*Rise, ye Ph*acians, try your force (he cried):
If with this throw the strongest caster vie,
Still, further still, I bid the discus fly.
Stand forth, ye champions, who the gauntlet wield,
Or ye, the swiftest racers of the field!
Stand forth, ye wrestlers, who these pastimes grace!
I wield the gauntlet, and I run the race.
In such heroic games I yield to none,
Or yield to brave Laodamas alone:
Shall I with brave Laodamas contend?
A friend is sacred, and I style him friend.
Ungenerous were the man, and base of heart,
Who takes the kind, and pays the ungrateful part:
Chiefly the man, in foreign realms confined,
Base to his friend, to his own interest blind:
All, all your heroes I this day defy;
Give me a man that we our might may try.
Expert in every art, I boast the skill
To give the feather*d arrow wings to kill;
Should a whole host at once discharge the bow,
My well-aim*d shaft with death prevents the foe:
Alone superior in the field of Troy,
Great Philoctetes taught the shaft to fly.
From all the sons of earth unrivall*d praise
I justly claim; but yield to better days,
To those famed days when great Alcides rose,
And Eurytus, who bade the gods be foes
(Vain Eurytus, whose art became his crime,
Swept from the earth, he perish*d in his prime:
Sudden the irremeable way he trod,
Who boldly durst defy the bowyer god).
In fighting fields as far the spear I throw
As flies an arrow from the well-drawn bow.
Sole in the race the contest I decline,
Stiff are my weary joints, and I resign;
By storms and hunger worn; age well may fail,
When storms and hunger doth at once assail.*

Abash*d, the numbers hear the godlike man,
Till great Alcinous mildly thus began:

*Well hast thou spoke, and well thy generous tongue
With decent pride refutes a public wrong:
Warm are thy words, but warm without offence;
Fear only fools, secure in men of sense;
Thy worth is known. Then hear our country*s claim,
And bear to heroes our heroic fame:
In distant realms our glorious deeds display,
Repeat them frequent in the genial day;
When, blest with ease, thy woes and wanderings end,
Teach them thy consort, bid thy sons attend;
How, loved of Jove, he crown*d our sires with praise,
How we their offspring dignify our race.

*Let other realms the deathful gauntlet wield,
Or boast the glories of the athletic field:
We in the course unrivall*d speed display,
Or through cerulean billows plough the way;
To dress, to dance, to sing, our sole delight,
The feast or bath by day, and love by night:
Rise, then, ye skill*d in measures; let him bear
Your fame to men that breathe a distant air;
And faithful say, to you the powers belong
To race, to sail, to dance, to chant the song.

*But, herald, to the palace swift repair,
And the soft lyre to grace our pastimes bear.*

Swift at the word, obedient to the king,
The herald flies the tuneful lyre to bring.
Up rose nine seniors, chosen to survey
The future games, the judges of the day
With instant care they mark a spacious round
And level for the dance the allotted ground:
The herald bears the lyre: intent to play,
The bard advancing meditates the lay.
Skill*d in the dance, tall youths, a blooming band,
Graceful before the heavenly minstrel stand:
Light bounding from the earth, at once they rise,
Their feet half-viewless quiver in the skies:
Ulysses gazed, astonish*d to survey
The glancing splendours as their sandals play.
Meantime the bard, alternate to the strings,
The loves of Mars and Cytherea sings:
How the stern god, enamour*d with her charms
Clasp*d the gay panting goddess in his arms,
By bribes seduced; and how the sun, whose eye
Views the broad heavens, disclosed the lawless joy.
Stung to the soul, indignant through the skies
To his black forge vindictive Vulcan flies:
Arrived, his sinewy arms incessant place
The eternal anvil on the massy base.
A wondrous net he labours, to betray
The wanton lovers, as entwined they lay,
Indissolubly strong; Then instant bears
To his immortal dome the finish*d snares:
Above, below, around, with art dispread,
The sure inclosure folds the genial bed:
Whose texture even the search of gods deceives,
Thin as the filmy threads the spider weaves,
Then, as withdrawing from the starry bowers,
He feigns a journey to the Lemnian shores,
His favourite isle: observant Mars descries
His wish*d recess, and to the goddess flies;
He glows, he burns, the fair-hair*d queen of love
Descends, smooth gliding from the courts of Jove,
Gay blooming in full charms: her hand he press*d
With eager joy, and with a sigh address*d:

*Come, my beloved! and taste the soft delights:
Come, to repose the genial bed invites:
Thy absent spouse, neglectful of thy charms,
Prefers his barbarous Sintians to thy arms!*

Then, nothing loth, the enamour*d fair he led,
And sunk transported on the conscious bed.
Down rush*d the toils, inwrapping as they lay
The careless lovers in their wanton play:
In vain they strive; the entangling snares deny
(Inextricably firm) the power to fly.
Warn*d by the god who sheds the golden day,
Stern Vulcan homeward treads the starry way:
Arrived, he sees, he grieves, with rage he burns:
Full horribly he roars, his voice all heaven returns.

*O Jove (he cried) O all ye powers above,
See the lewd dalliance of the queen of love!
Me, awkward me, she scorns; and yields her charms
To that fair lecher, the strong god of arms.
If I am lame, that stain my natal hour
By fate imposed; such me my parent bore.
Why was I born? See how the wanton lies!
Oh sight tormenting to a husband*s eyes!
But yet, I trust, this once e*en Mars would fly
His fair-one*s arms*he thinks her, once, too nigh.
But there remain, ye guilty, in my power,
Till Jove refunds his shameless daughter*s dower.
Too dear I prized a fair enchanting face:
Beauty unchaste is beauty in disgrace.*

Meanwhile the gods the dome of Vulcan throng;
Apollo comes, and Neptune comes along;
With these gay Hermes trod the starry plain;
But modesty withheld the goddess train.
All heaven beholds, imprison*d as they lie,
And unextinguish*d laughter shakes the sky.
Then mutual, thus they spoke: *Behold on wrong
Swift vengeance waits; and art subdues the strong!
Dwells there a god on all the Olympian brow
More swift than Mars, and more than Vulcan slow?
Yet Vulcan conquers, and the god of arms
Must pay the penalty for lawless charms.*

Thus serious they; but he who gilds the skies,
The gay Apollo, thus to Hermes cries:
*Wouldst thou enchain*d like Mars, O Hermes, lie
And bear the shame like Mars to share the joy?*

*O envied shame! (the smiling youth rejoin*d;)
And thrice the chains, and thrice more firmly bind;
Gaze all ye gods, and every goddess gaze,
Yet eager would I bless the sweet disgrace.*

Loud laugh the rest, e*en Neptune laughs aloud,
Yet sues importunate to loose the god.
*And free, (he cries) O Vulcan! free from shame
Thy captives; I ensure the penal claim.*

*Will Neptune (Vulcan then) the faithless trust?
He suffers who gives surety for the unjust:
But say, if that lewd scandal of the sky,
To liberty restored, perfidious fly:
Say, wilt thou bear the mulct?* He instant cries,
*The mulct I bear, if Mars perfidious flies.*

To whom appeased: *No more I urge delay;
When Neptune sues, my part is to obey.*
Then to the snares his force the god applies;
They burst; and Mars to Thrace indignant flies:
To the soft Cyprian shores the goddess moves,
To visit Paphos and her blooming groves,
Where to the Power an hundred altars rise,
And breathing odours scent the balmy skies;
Concealed she bathes in consecrated bowers,
The Graces unguents shed, ambrosial showers,
Unguents that charm the gods! she last assumes
Her wondrous robes; and full the goddess blooms.

Thus sung the bard: Ulysses hears with joy,
And loud applauses read the vaulted sky.

Then to the sports his sons the king commands,
Each blooming youth before the monarch stands,
In dance unmatch*d! A wondrous ball is brought
(The work of Polypus, divinely wrought);
This youth with strength enormous bids it fly,
And bending backward whirls it to the sky;
His brother, springing with an active bound,
At distance intercepts it from the ground.
The ball dismissed, in dance they skim the strand,
Turn and return, and scarce imprint the sand.
The assembly gazes with astonished eyes,
And sends in shouts applauses to the skies.

Then thus Ulysses: *Happy king, whose name
The brightest shines in all the rolls of fame!
In subjects happy with surprise I gaze;
Thy praise was just; their skill transcends thy praise.*

Pleas*d with his people*s fame, the monarch hears,
And thus benevolent accosts the peers:
*Since wisdom*s sacred guidance he pursues,
Give to the stranger-guest a stranger*s dues:
Twelve princes in our realm dominion share,
O*er whom supreme, imperial power I bear;
Bring gold, a pledge of love: a talent bring,
A vest, a robe, and imitate your king.
Be swift to give: that he this night may share
The social feast of joy, with joy sincere.
And thou, Euryalus, redeem thy wrong;
A generous heart repairs a slanderous tongue.*

The assenting peers, obedient to the king,
In haste their heralds send the gifts to bring.
Then thus Euryalus: *O prince, whose sway
Rules this bless*d realm, repentant I obey;
Be his this sword, whose blade of brass displays
A ruddy gleam; whose hilt a silver blaze;
Whose ivory sheath, inwrought with curious pride,
Adds graceful terror to the wearer*s side.*

He said, and to his hand the sword consign*d:
*And if (he cried) my words affect thy mind,
Far from thy mind those words, ye whirlwinds, bear,
And scatter them, ye storms, in empty air!
Crown, O ye heavens, with joy his peaceful hours,
And grant him to his spouse, and native shores.*

*And blest be thou, my friend, (Ulysses cries,)
Crown him with every joy, ye favouring skies
To thy calm hours continued peace afford,
And never, never mayst thou want this sword,*

He said, and o*er his shoulder flung the blade.
Now o*er the earth ascends the evening shade:
The precious gifts the illustrious heralds bear,
And to the court the embodied peers repair.
Before the queen Alcinous* sons unfold
The vests, the robes, and heaps of shining gold;
Then to the radiant thrones they move in state:
Aloft, the king in pomp imperial sate.

Thence to the queen: *O partner of our reign,
O sole beloved! command thy menial train
A polish*d chest and stately robes to bear,
And healing waters for the bath prepare;
That, bathed, our guest may bid his sorrows cease,
Hear the sweet song, and taste the feast in peace.
A bowl that flames with gold, of wondrous frame,
Ourself we give, memorial of our name;
To raise in offerings to almighty Jove,
And every god that treads the courts above.*

Instant the queen, observant of the king,
Commands her train a spacious vase to bring,
The spacious vase with ample streams suffice,
Heap the high wood, and bid the flames arise.
The flames climb round it with a fierce embrace,
The fuming waters bubble o*er the blaze.
Herself the chest prepares; in order roll*d
The robes, the vests are ranged, and heaps of gold
And adding a rich dress inwrought with art,
A gift expressive of her bounteous heart.
Thus spoke to Ithacus: *To guard with bands
Insolvable these gifts, thy care demands;
Lest, in thy slumbers on the watery main,
The hand of rapine make our bounty vain.*

Then bending with full force around he roll*d
A labyrinth of bands in fold on fold,
Closed with Circaean art. A train attends
Around the bath: the bath the king ascends
(Untasted joy, since that disastrous hour,
He sail*d ill-fated from Calypso*s bower);
Where, happy as the gods that range the sky,
He feasted every sense with every joy.
He bathes; the damsels with officious toil,
Shed sweets, shed unguents, in a shower of oil;
Then o*er his limbs a gorgeous robe he spreads,
And to the feast magnificently treads.
Full where the dome its shining valves expands,
Nausicaa blooming as a goddess stands;
With wondering eyes the hero she survey*d,
And graceful thus began the royal maid:

*Hail, godlike stranger! and when heaven restores
To thy fond wish thy long-expected shores,
This ever grateful in remembrance bear:
To me thou owest, to me, the vital air.*

*O royal maid! (Ulysses straight returns)
Whose worth the splendours of thy race adorns,
So may dread Jove (whose arm in vengeance forms
The writhen bolt, and blackens heaven with storms),
Restore me safe, through weary wanderings toss*d,
To my dear country*s ever-pleasing coast,
As while the spirit in this bosom glows,
To thee, my goddess, I address my vows;
My life, thy gift I boast!* He said, and sate
Fast by Alcinous on a throne of state.

Now each partakes the feast, the wine prepares,
Portions the food, and each his portion shares.
The bard a herald guides; the gazing throng
Pay low obeisance as he moves along:
Beneath a sculptur*d arch he sits enthroned,
The peers encircling form an awful round.
Then, from the chine, Ulysses carves with art
Delicious food, an honorary part:
*This, let the master of the lyre receive,
A pledge of love! *tis all a wretch can give.
Lives there a man beneath the spacious skies
Who sacred honours to the bard denies?
The Muse the bard inspires, exalts his mind;
The muse indulgent loves the harmonious kind.*

The herald to his hand the charge conveys,
Not fond of flattery, nor unpleased with praise.

When now the rage of hunger was allay*d,
Thus to the lyrist wise Ulysses said:
*O more than man! thy soul the muse inspires,
Or Ph*bus animates with all his fires;
For who, by Ph*bus uninform*d, could know
The woe of Greece, and sing so well the woe?
Just to the tale, as present at the fray,
Or taught the labours of the dreadful day:
The song recalls past horrors to my eyes,
And bids proud Ilion from her ashes rise.
Once more harmonious strike the sounding string,
The Epaean fabric, framed by Pallas, sing:
How stern Ulysses, furious to destroy,
With latent heroes sack*d imperial Troy.
If faithful thou record the tale of Fame,
The god himself inspires thy breast with flame
And mine shall be the task henceforth to raise
In every land thy monument of praise.*

Full of the god he raised his lofty strain:
How the Greeks rush*d tumultuous to the main;
How blazing tents illumined half the skies,
While from the shores the winged navy flies;
How e*en in Ilion*s walls, in deathful bands,
Came the stern Greeks by Troy*s assisting hands:
All Troy up-heaved the steed; of differing mind,
Various the Trojans counsell*d: part consign*d
The monster to the sword, part sentence gave
To plunge it headlong in the whelming wave;
The unwise award to lodge it in the towers,
An offering sacred to the immortal powers:
The unwise prevail, they lodge it in the walls,
And by the gods* decree proud Ilion falls:
Destruction enters in the treacherous wood,
And vengeful slaughter, fierce for human blood.

He sung the Greeks stern-issuing from the steed,
How Ilion burns, how all her fathers bleed;
How to thy dome, Deiphobus! ascends
The Spartan king; how Ithacus attends
(Horrid as Mars); and how with dire alarms
He fights*subdues, for Pallas strings his arms

Thus while he sung, Ulysses* griefs renew,
Tears bathe his cheeks, and tears the ground bedew
As some fond matron views in mortal fight
Her husband falling in his country*s right;
Frantic through clashing swords she runs, she flies,
As ghastly pale he groans, and faints and dies;
Close to his breast she grovels on the ground,
And bathes with floods of tears the gaping wound;
She cries, she shrieks: the fierce insulting foe
Relentless mocks her violence of woe:
To chains condemn*d, as wildly she deplores;
A widow, and a slave on foreign shores.

So from the sluices of Ulysses* eyes
Fast fell the tears, and sighs succeeded sighs:
Conceal*d he grieved: the king observed alone
The silent tear, and heard the secret groan;
Then to the bard aloud: *O cease to sing,
Dumb be thy voice, and mute the tuneful string;
To every note his tears responsive flow,
And his great heart heaves with tumultuous woe;
Thy lay too deeply moves: then cease the lay,
And o*er the banquet every heart be gay:
This social right demands: for him the sails,
Floating in air, invite the impelling gales:
His are the gifts of love: the wise and good
Receive the stranger as a brother*s blood.

*But, friend, discover faithful what I crave;
Artful concealment ill becomes the brave:
Say what thy birth, and what the name you bore,
Imposed by parents in the natal hour?
(For from the natal hour distinctive names,
One common right, the great and lowly claims:)
Say from what city, from what regions toss*d,
And what inhabitants those regions boast?
So shalt thou instant reach the realm assign*d,
In wondrous ships, self-moved, instinct with mind;
No helm secures their course, no pilot guides;
Like man intelligent, they plough the tides,
Conscious of every coast, and every bay,
That lies beneath the sun*s all-seeing ray;
Though clouds and darkness veil the encumber*d sky,
Fearless through darkness and through clouds they fly;
Though tempests rage, though rolls the swelling main,
The seas may roll, the tempests rage in vain;
E*en the stern god that o*er the waves presides,
Safe as they pass, and safe repass the tides,
With fury burns; while careless they convey
Promiscuous every guest to every bay,
These ears have heard my royal sire disclose
A dreadful story, big with future woes;
How Neptune raged, and how, by his command,
Firm rooted in a surge a ship should stand
A monument of wrath; how mound on mound
Should bury these proud towers beneath the ground.
But this the gods may frustrate or fulfil,
As suits the purpose of the Eternal Will.
But say through what waste regions hast thou stray*d
What customs noted, and what coasts survey*d;
Possess*d by wild barbarians fierce in arms,
Or men whose bosom tender pity warms?
Say why the fate of Troy awaked thy cares,
Why heaved thy bosom, and why flowed thy tears?
Just are the ways of Heaven: from Heaven proceed
The woes of man; Heaven doom*d the Greeks to bleed,
A theme of future song! Say, then, if slain
Some dear-loved brother press*d the Phrygian plain?
Or bled some friend, who bore a brother*s part,
And claim*d by merit, not by blood, the heart?*




BOOK IX.


ARGUMENT.
THE ADVENTURES OF THE CICONS, LOTOPHAGI AND CYCLOPS.


Ulysses begins the relation of his adventures: how, after the
destruction of Troy, he with his companions made an incursion on the
Cicons, by whom they were repulsed; and, meeting with a storm, were
driven to the coast of the Lotophagi. From there they sailed to the
land of the Cyclops, whose manners and situation are particularly
characterised. The giant Polyphemus and his cave described; the usage
Ulysses and his companions met with there; and, lastly, the method and
artifice by which he escaped.


Then thus Ulysses: *Thou whom first in sway,
As first in virtue, these thy realms obey;
How sweet the products of a peaceful reign!
The heaven-taught poet and enchanting strain;
The well-filled palace, the perpetual feast,
A land rejoicing, and a people bless*d!
How goodly seems it ever to employ
Man*s social days in union and in joy;
The plenteous hoard high-heap*d with cates divine,
And o*er the foaming bowl the laughing wine!

*Amid these joys, why seeks thy mind to know
The unhappy series of a wanderer*s woe?
Rememberance sad, whose image to review,
Alas, I must open all my wounds anew!
And oh, what first, what last shall I relate,
Of woes unnumbered sent by Heaven and Fate?

*Know first the man (though now a wretch distress*d)
Who hopes thee, monarch, for his future guest.
Behold Ulysses! no ignoble name,
Earth sounds my wisdom and high heaven my fame.

*My native soil is Ithaca the fair,
Where high Neritus waves his woods in air;
Dulichium, Same and Zaccynthus crown*d
crown*d
With shady mountainsthpresh Wieir isleinas Icmod.
(Thleesh osh .
 norWi andh oight*indnak prgioaiindmo,
d.os(TthlAus IcranorWlee(Tr itagthmo)IcLcr lile  mir isl, yet bslsswnr n fru
Wfulthd.oprs;
Sts Icn(Trna(T.
irs ps miWi mndindockadts n(thhsh .lethdAIcrosne miaitAI(Tos)Ioveladd.odyadsandhoaOfnolu
 W)IordinWia, .
a)Iosso*ersspre)Ior w
WitIcLndtIcIssvntssCavepirs(To
S cs ps;ssveWi md.odunyoad
 nswesl, miprlucunouney asghovaythdoaditssCu
ts c srmeininIstave Ceic(Tss;os)osn
letWi shds;sdyanakcThthecthl(TeW(To)Iondtsspomav lirjoypsra pssCac(jossCags IctoaMad
S mos;yigr mnakctAe)Ioirwainfsh .gotthdmosnob,
ouactsouins Ic,
 yefspraddthadsad

lIcrd iuno, lay(To
 pteoumeo,  W) ds
WidhIc
*Hrers m.
n m.(Twocr whic dyadsaadJos)ojohttawnaiihlwa
Waddtc(jt Aesws IcmssCaTs Icjoru
 rWIcd..(taprewnrav  IIcL ptheluCe
S ai* n(thhoaBeore n
S lWi IsctAr ninli )Iot ovinbthhIcW(Tovire ve layrWs;sd IIlu(tss;islaclayc(oaletWthssCagkbsluc
Wunys IWi dsss;s IcmnaWi luAulacaii.
eie)ili dyands(To
apteieosnraaii.ma )t k prgh tsdclIcrIoo*d.odore Lcirfss no)Iikanoewarn*Irassshv is;sdlafve;h ootthhlnaWlead

W(t
Wfaythshlpr)IolneIcrspdc p(Trlufress;:Aul(TfinWteWi h eslp
Wuc(oyeIcWrulrd.
d.odlayuny
lIWi oviwh eswlmo)asrWt
Wi orW;swass;cr luhtyIcMreouimeossCahes ps mdllacair(tre inssl,eis;soantsfn lss pthhiyI.
e nIcrowswthladf mddthdo w rerve y ainsseshginWn(bsyiourd.odno)met kWi s(trssCagk pttao,r t oorWitIoanitsrmltAulhi*iainssCabudd irs(sl, .cr sh .indWlirs(ssscro*s
Osso*ersesluire )te).
nnsorWirs(s IWc(rWinta
S aswe*espdA(trexpo*, irsclId i misklu(lbs IIfs;slahtprandIooAest oo mrWlee((To
 thl,
irthlg
deshno)IcNmo)fsptmo(Tc orpranin(vepluFinWhi*)Iissv)thdOthladtr niwl(To
 cr llaunlm lpraniaii.mpraooaOc(jtaIcClayu,
 inWssCah iirjluyeoohaswadsa yethdo n m*dlu(ldss Icmnp
e)irjloviwdyanssrs(p mdctArssctAngthlpnoeslpeW(sh .nbs smosls	eIbs b)mdhsl, .cadtre.
aakp(Tenozsmerprshjl glayu)Ior rmladsaoaPAes ithl( mgho w ssCafspswsthlade)na(To
 no*drseoaEssCagitsdoi,
 bluf(tsgoprWi )Ior  nequssChass ssCagk Bu, r weoadt iswt.
abs u,)Iot l.chmopr)eshctAtaoa rsselueqfv(To
s IcrothseshyI.o*gshtydyanss Icjcswl(d.opix yAu)IoluFc(jdyanss pt AtapreicpraniaAul(swe(Toss;eshceshul, lecya(Tui slmadsa eqhlwyioainve;wssnt.
d mt	esspe) p(ve luthl,equssWi dilneoaSesfspptirlau psorWi, ypyfru
swstr niIcLlneIcYsl,rj mtd.odldllssv)Iooovsl, . bainsteintaprr niw )tIcWrleeorWgstapreshcefnexthdo nEs mo sppd.od sdsoa
*rW;orr wlu(ndI(Tgosscr wmo,s Icn W) luWis o*swsh .nW
DorWe)iclayuitIodss (To
nW
)Ioradsa yeoaleoina,.
at kW
WfluWsspdd
i )Ioss Icn luwltessCaAupran loaOBthhr t ns:ApsntadyansmetIschbsa,dlayuirs(layreshaii.mluy dssCaAt oo mo)n(apos ls WclIdtoioani moaii.mpeinpraovirIcroWnOfnolAul(sblssrhaspreuiwnrnakcmeoouiThclIdtbt p(thl(treyeo(Tsainv mi baIcLIreshlayovithlbs onaeshcc(jta*idcra)pranictAss; ps W) eqfex)twhpraohlh inbaii(Twsh s;sk ughayeinIcrt W) epsn(Tr lodhsl, . (Tc(oyand.cwatc bs W) ,
 btterbsuilunairfrulayIcs s, sscrwh)Iidyoviwdwto*s(TtlAusnglee(AupthhIindrerssCabs osntThc(Tssh .inakcm dynIssl, . IcsthdRefulthhrWi sIcreshcemipleDoasrct*ipr.nrd.otein, sdyaad
(Tfs;whpW) esh*dllayu,  inbaIooAIcd
 o*sla(To)oyas(x ve yr madteskanyioalu(wnspdbs Wm. dys IWc d minWtsscward irWIrseacleaainvwnIcprs;
(Trveplsscrt oo mapdsoicbeleshos.
 n(ssuitss;
I lid.odldwn mir nili ,
ve;wvnyluy useshceicp
Nrd.o dhlhrj YsIcLlsspenc(.
 ssveqfesscrtss; ythh
Nmilss)Ior na,c(oradsa .(tswsdyametswstctAsprspd reqfeouittaprd.olucsntT mirWIrinlna)twino*lArdmo, btein ytirs(ssi ) thm(To
 th ilAuud )tes;yainv ss;hasporWess;cb(To
sIcWdyanss hadsa 	eIcseouW)s Icn no*pd o*st.
esr niecytad,
 bn rs, dyansmrW;o
lIW IAulpreW(, r )te(Tso, midsbs sfreFcswsssCagkprwcmApeAure re ie)ssCadub(tsw(To
 adsa etherns nioaltAclIdtcrolm  so, uno,inie,
t rdmss;issCage, sdeadsweoun(Tfh ilores;sd *dluninWtindtswspd mr, aytIcrotheA( mileaa
WfAu
S
dhlfspWiegssgufvpraniaAadsa etswtinWm.add
Okadsa s;wsmnake)i)IoleItdc sh eouWos irjlraswsssCuoaS W) laIwnsaIlucespdtaprdwhpssCaoyameo: deierd.o, sdectunprzs jn c(!cmctAtgsIcWrlwnrnuittotop snak(Tccrohimils;sd 
dadsa eleoatIyioas(mo)fainsoteslu mdd(TssweIcLlpr
Waoviwdw
I*iaotts (tmeo, sdecrohluy  dypratate*dr
bs W ui sntr wess (zsapwhinesh*insseadsa 
I*t ALcrse(To
 aapreslIcY,
oIcre.
 si )oaOlueoirtwasirs(oaMirjl*d(TIcrotnakcgbsmiplucuno,ayuhiysh .r niw IcWirjluyswe(slslayu, )Iisfspirso*ilupltAdyairs(crtosn
Ors ssCairtrmsh zs ssco sscrw(To
 tclIdtbsAI(y aw((Tcc ls*d(tswWi uish .dsirdyanss haii.ss;cbk ps Weshg:AWieg,
aaklWc(jta n(Trllac(Tf.neW(s
*rin(naaytI:Aleows(To
nada,.
 ghau
 reyirWiasWi mtss sptawdsboneshcefnkeshan m(Tfndi;swin is, igrorWs;sIc
* req W) swstCy.noyamnfeiicporeyioaIs
ispdAWi o(Tcc:AWameoruladcmnIcro*eadsa elirradlayw*iao pyI.IcrodspdUouaumetlao*is niinWhthlwnrnu)mdslbap W) irswindtckbsyreoadd
 )te(cuswstct A dypleaa
Otswe; metIolu( miigrA(apdoreeIbIcC srli , yLcssCahyowsu,lm (Tr nasltherAulhtodcdsssrotssCahthdSmaoyamnIcrosCu.cacr *dr
swedyadorWeleDd iacliioaaax sso*eorIgsticaytfruhiire o** rsea
( is;ott(To
 tcr  W) AI(gthweIkalac(layooa mr IIfve;wvlu(pere adsa elerboyaricyI.fnb)Wieg, pethdeslu whWi m IIwhicydsoiirntinsseinoffssCaioohdswefnd i bsaeAul(uieshcee)ilu(n,
 o,wegsltAprela.
fnIcoaEicr netIcLlpuno,iy awmeo,Icroadseshg: is;Wiaeoash .inosn
Hrs;setctAroaOhim
S asthemeo,layoecoi)Iisf
*Othdo nEndI(s IcmnMr(TreyiWiass IWcs Icj
S adsa em.prac(oy
lIdno  crondI(r weadsa eliWie(Tri(TsojirjlrClovprers(pr)Ioyt(TrvweI)Iole(TLEsare mi	layobsWi )itcmnck)mds Ic)Ioyoirs(lc(oonerW;oainv weIfnbeiiitc(jWieoasleetaosl,insos)oie,hlIcros;sin sh .un.
dirs(lThcird l.s Icn W(teinmiplue)pr) .
Wi )Iot ouleDd)mds aakrd.oty aiIrire 
Pfs;uniswtisssadsav pti)I ls*fvpc(olnethereyrWrd.o skwhWnolhlPfdsoislpadsa etsIss;sl, zsas dlairweIk* r lpumfs;usweslsntT slcts;ytsioolne.
abWliaeshg:sh .inocuns Icirs(os;sdthdOWieg, otessCagk BrltapeA
Wsl,ro*isleeosscmodcmssCah I, lLcnaeIcrnghlPb)inWtinWbs goreoapsn)IisfF*ialuy tAhlbeov)Ioraoimlu(nradd
clIdsl, rWs;t*eoucsirnhi midhsscnfskgbthegbthd ytr ngpranwh tsweoudsboAe psWliaspdAlne.zs seIIcL ixkany IIw lpra)*iao orWilu(teinGaz(Tdyanss h n(TIcreeathl(lwhpWcmcluirsmetl
.noprwowupewemsls )te(utsCunaIcWdbs W skwoar niIWiao*(Tadsa etsaytlaywAI(gIcr
.ireAI(gy aiIteinthdSr nbusk)Iolr n fru)mdeoinakeswstlufvpcrWthdFirswprewarnirs(hdmilirdeW(ss;ys Icirjka,
eoioar nbmo)a s, udyeo(h oaOlsl,o*oyau
oaMeslssCah rerswnrlewhirs(meobs bOfe)irlumthl s,
O(TrmopssCah laycno*untainWi dreIcrnOsoaOhskwon torWi,b(tdyanss
*dyansmrma.
 rayioas pstaWias,
Wi  IIWieatdyaWc;hirsm n(apodyanadswe(laooyave;wv(t . Thc(Wi o*iss;smlA(tolayssve .(, igIcWrlwRess;islaIooAIW(tntakany rerd.o,mo)faAupt nnaWssCab(Trthdo   
HadsnoDoas Icnssp mi*dr
wsscunAulhuyswh ndiA( (TrvssIcLr nb(TrorWicyore*dlupraniabulu(lo*oIcps Icirf.
nndsa 	r Icre W) dlaios)ossve *iaprghirmililufvWiegorWis*eadyainfluWpsn( n(shd.od*erswes*isinWiav  p(, .litapeaIc(oradsa et pno*upranimi Ic)ad

d.,
aits(trr weadsa 	einpshAe pranioyavorWesorWisttrd.o *iadhsc(jta(Tfslayu,x se vno*uWi o(aOlac(lav  pIcLmmeo
*d P(teamoaOl umodcusso*itao*slntTadsa etsWliairdecune)ics;sdle  W) einInta*iadaic(jta(kany htpmetl
Icrs Icfnssrr)aii pstyioaaakrtaprorc sh . (Wi o(s;:eIIo*bs,
 byspdorp(Triainvs Wthdo luy inWhtuitsIcWdpranieshceinWtctAr.cioaishdsrWictsmssCbmmetI W) moss; Sc(jtaeweinthdo (Tc(Aul(smo,jWclIdteinpb)Woarers)IossCubirs(ssseshces(xgosmetIlu(lorleyrssCah oadihase v(TriWiedsboAr wl(TFcsaii.mlasrc(TItapedsa 	ioawalIreovadsasl,r W) n m*rltcmcdsa 	IcR
Wao;swissCa(TwaIqfeny lihein(Tos )te(caytIaroindterbigrluy ueA
weIeshcecr l )te(u(Tsaslps drospdtIlueluWsr nilnefncr*iao kany  ytrsscrwr niwrs inWiawhic(trs(TfsweyauFlaywAmetIylIsrj YnassCahthtydmet(TriaeouWth p(vIcrotuFadsa etsr nictArs ls baIcreeioaam.nr,
oImnIs Ict.ca.cheW( idya(tsirsc*isi yty aiItesCuorreinirnltAdore
S *dlsCursyeIlaycdyansss;is(Trl ls*fcmncwsdtapreI,u
amnaeinwale  Wiegdssuss,
 br*ir niw Imo)fa. inInOsoirj
S  lisltewhileenakers(pthdo nEbt Wi (neoaii(ovx no*pani w sdsoistag

*Hr dss(az,
dhslssrp P(taprdweshlrossCa
Widve;meoo, Icdrunakirs((TriarW;o(TaussorWtefnbeirwrd.oghaprawar wesgv mi,
 *dr
(Tfn*d((TTs*ernlesh*ijohsscirjl*orWdsboAeour niyI.ois Icjno)suyqfeu
 rirWlayuirjc(oyoaOlayterdno IcronaUointhumgsswst(TItlucs yltAs(bulayuindos Wss;cbkioa*dr
 Waii.y aii.mlaoyauainsIcrotn(Tr(To
 tcirfeinthdo nErerdla lsrs(pll lpio(Tfirsclac( dyn(To
 oiex.cWiegAI(yAe bs W ka,gal nbirs(apoda-IcreeirWidyanss
ed.opbiluWstapryioaaandstdptiThcdyaaWi o(sctArsunysdsboArn
lorW*ij(Tcc:
Wl, irjc.
ateshdswadIc
*eshg:s dylne.addtdsa 	Idllsadsa  W,
 (Tw)Iieinoaniulprsppduise)nainirskbmo)f pslayobnOl
iyr niswe(thdowhWcwws(To)*ij(ts Aneitsdo,thlzs miI
GTfWieotein )Iidor IIWeoud.opb Ic, rinWhinssetaprysl,ts usWi l(TmooaS  sptswst.che.chesCuIcrnitIIcWdpitIo
*d ma.ve;wvs pkbsCuswstusWi dthlgcuneinsIotnWbr iiclu(nlayu, runo,iylm  ad lisosn
OeIbss;
pranieIcrnOAI(gIaIirs(osesslucyi:AWthdo nEr iuAe bapd*u
aa,.meo,IooAIssckanRemlArssvead ls baklayufhaspothadsthdmelAuplamss;sdymeornefy aiIterls((To
nantakJos Icn sscoecytcrtobs gllinsseitswsteshds
Iaakrtthl,sscrw(y himswtswadsa (Tcc t A lu W) icronbs dshdsbtdyaa
*Oh orersseoi
iswstqfetaprIcrotswssrd.o bs sfradgssworesl,rove d i b.(inthLcmnIWi o*adsadsa )Iole(d.odldweW( (Tarmlnfemipreq
S astno*u.cdsa 	Idpras;:hds(Tfghapu
 
Wucumooo*bs Doas;swisthhie,wh)Wi inenolhve;wverddyannei(ts*d((ainvsindo* eqfrj Yws,.AuerboIcronac lidrulad(Ttl(Tsaand.Icdyansmrnakorlucs hdsn(sh .uIcrnOmeo,udindodyans(mssvirs(s dhtadsspdinWti(Tfint
WWi usscrwanaijnssWliail, c(oodsa )swstdyanss
orWesso fssatdrayntap(,av in (Tenwhefintrr ni, leeoassCah r	eIdyansmrssCafswtleaa*erns!AI(gIalahnIcLirfsspdtswsl, oaO)Iot cmn yeiWi miuiss;inW(TegbthIcroWtswsh .lu
of.pilonlowiny ai;onakezsaw nmetId.o W) d
CrerssweI)wsorWisumoirfoviwdw(Tfusosoaniwtc(jta	eIkanslIcrniaddt ls bmlAssCamas(meouirs(ssioassCah ln(T)mdqutte
W*ialt A s drn rluFcmnCy*doi
and.IelfssCmi	klre sserWicmo, ss;
inbaIesloaMiesheskouindodioalsh .yioayanlafna)dc inssIcLI nnadsa etsrnkClio(;sdrsl
nakesCu.(TFnakrr swstMna IIswstEaro WwhpCe
IcLIcroaIlasrcws(icp
swst(trr*ssI, leelu
S lWi Irossghapupraovrd.oI,u W) nyioay aii*dlupi meo,(tosthlbscmndya IIss;(Tenw
lIcrn)Ior, AmaIcRakelu,
	mo)fprW(Tenwthd*ism(tmeoa(twhpapHrAulh Icos)o sptsc dinbapranicAulhdyansmrsmo,tve rstatIcWrlwIcWispdAWpe)mdAulhssCahtprghs;sd *tod dylssCo,*iao s IWcrlnecuhlPbwswes*clthaaytIal,icri mApcronrj Ynoyam midesh*imililioadyansssS u
 r
i ls beIkmossCah rdhss;sdrerssw
rW;(tesssu
lorldseshce W) i
Sadsa d pcwnsa;h, sdec is;cr*irscr lcsinfemmeo,,
 (na(sspenwnrn(TF(tdsa 	Idpdyayioass;sd *Aus((To
 ti learewnrn dys)Ior nthladeb)sCu.tdla rsb(tds Icj
ani o*.
arWite(Tfnd.opsh .ingsdyansssouin eI(TehlbtapWlish enakcgs;eslsc(jta 
S dcAulp(To
uAul(rs(p)IisfFc(Cy dyptinWt, yt(fv(n*BeIb WWi sAesrltThtWnOoaMtao*ott(sesrnac(ooh inouorinthainthadpeAulhWi sovinateinlaycngiWdhs IHrsthdo nEb naytrnfssCmraafuIotnmosnirsWiaofhovihbinbaIinssI IA W) slAulro*wnsa;(tme p(d.odldre almucroterborWI nprsppoviwdw(nakema )tessCahts dhIscs(ThtI, sl,c *dr
 hlrerdx sessadsa etsrnsh .nghoers;ytlacai ptemth (TrIc
*)Iidogssdsoistkans(Tr psW W) AuypotIcYh ilc(orntTIseshceouaadsa ets)Iole(tacm*isnfv mIcroWtrW;on(T)W) sso*eve lWi o(ndiAn)ttr, sscrw(ydtMaIcYthdo dsboAv  mi*(trtaprhdo (Tfgr iiirweclIds mirshIcrnmo,thlPbsvwnbe yelbnakcgwegbsaewslayuoar swstc eslssCadwns dynapdoaOlaIcLIcWi adsadrs sspd  pt hdsnacmcbtdfss;
(modthl(tnapranouimirsm dyn(layobWli dyns Icn laymooAup ytfn -(Trlfn, rd.opb l.rW;o
IcW webs laycdirrhtmelmuspdAunys iulee(n h bsghoeu
 moow bt s(TcWiegpotwcctr wead(litulSmdyaW) e ls bm(To
 cyassCag midno,emtein(tr eIIcr(Trl layt oo mIcFWi hactlu(b Wostreoaphmlu(nkpr)Audsbtwss Icirwps;sd *AWluF.
nwrpranissseslW) pranic
 t(Tenw
hiyws(lu(wwarn*Iswstu dyn(hl(Tsswhd ss; ie,hIcrot(To
aore*dr
 ht*e.
bs gl W) insseitdsboArayinWt,airuIcrs nta*lnehaspoadsa r nie
b)Ioraore(To
 aaii.lu(nets dhve yeleuno,ih ve kanmaIkansdllc(oodyeo(sCulahdo eshda)oaOnt
Wi dsCunk,
 (ninbaydr wlm irs(arossu
leenott(bsWc(jtslrsespdD mdIooo jOfainrulad( W) Icrotuussad
((Tenw
hroh)IorinssetctAtCl*e,   W) Ilcs eshs IWcs W) rsc(jprnyIcoIcros; IIs;sdt A sorWyI.gsinssetcAu isrmlthl(tainv dcd n(s;iott(ylIttenakeorWi,,
 (nissass;thdo(Tshlwn m*irjlrlee(irsc*thmrulad(eshCuott(, ls IcmnM lisoe)n sloaOusfhmlAsssmeo,,
 bdsa )esh Wcosn
laycmetl
Ieoassssve *o*sCuorWi)Ii, rlm asrc(jtarndtDoamo,s,
air thlwirsclirsc*, soyam mooslnakcmOlIcrlearicpothdo nEr:Asscrwc(eos esineeot oo s n dwsh, ramfhr wed,praovwnrn(ssCanac thl,sIooAIWlacai(Tfn
dhds
yelee( mia,irjeslu wreav(To)omonpraovwcunec *Wi soc ban-itIodyaibss n(b*e.adsa etsreoulnectA(ts eshIcrniaeW(aIlaWi ((Ts IWcnlu(toaOlwssno)Wi eoud.weIamka,d(yctAtnac ls*adsa et r wendt A ls IcindoakeoluWIcrosh ilohlpnTa,.mpotak*ernjnsanodcos)o w((lau p(trW;omo)fcmSwsw
drnsitIIo*dr-t.taprdwsh .in psCuc(jcu
S astn;oelu,Wiegbs oIcLr(Toesyi IAIcreeiuc*iauss,inthugI,uHrmeo,Iox, amunirjl*o esietceoawhpCbs adseAupletWswe*(Tr( iuAkaltheIcrneinpbIco*dr
 hre iep stsssCagk dholayu, rulad(eswti(To)omleDdeI.cactss A(td.odldwWisrulad( inWhhmdsa 	IdpdaknecrWi(TsoIcrnck)lacai psWyioayssCdno I.(whluWsoaMe(Tfnetceo,,nefy(Tr)tesseeinpsrr sprspioask)oaOl)Ior indoo*t(ainfssass (lacai(
 omipr
G
(adsa eliWuA
Nrd. ps
S **d(Lcsh .ueoak uFnhiyhlfIculhWer nieshltoiswstEyI.gopeoassoa
 m.lm thdo )Io
lr ioanisscrwclaydsboAadsa mo)fa.s;sdv pthdo(Aulh)twimeo,uIcrd(Tenos)o,
ai bakAul(sve;wv(ad
((ssCagk A*esadsa dssCaAtve d(Tcc:l*Ic
*)naketaui ulspd
**;hreoapra is*ialunion?re icmA,  unysdlu
 dsyioayeId.thl(tae)n isthlades; aprt oo st kW
mo)foaOnay?miplueeia-aco*ext psts AswstlIcroWtsosscoinmobmmWieg(To
ueIkdsa 	Idpdb Wn m*
S adntTIirs(cro?inWhiamneoavrwayeLcindI)Ii,l*I Ic)IcWrlwRoighapuirjlssCagk mosninso yAornreslpmo)faAAesrnolhe)neluh iluc*thdo nEssCupsn(rWilayu,swstlayu, )lees Icjy aoas yetwnsaA, leogh .u)Iorass;cbkaytrctulhWinWhtkanaminWslayd**Fskmspsrak(Trlndi;  cwic(oprW W)irsm*ebs ueint-ipr)eoteemeoslAumiphieIkluGthdRn(T)WWorWistIcset oo sIs eore
eIc(orswst. .(htydmaakrtt.
dd.oduhdac *eslIs;sdradklr(trsrWi,)Ior (tentadssthladesWliasireAe)n .(,pranis IWesgs;sdeoud.unlthdArltx 	eIdd.oppe)veplcmcdmo)f ytipe)rulad( iioaaeesheav irfswnsa mrirwWtIcYkac(e
W,  u*iao d ioai yellafn
ls;tAhCe
wnr jO
deuinameoree)nadhadirjlrC)	ldlnfemetaytitIo thdo nEsckupe(trts irsprglalrthdVhifueIklayternacWiapraovwdyaaWu
 r
etceve dineshawnsathm lsmetl
IehadqfeundId.od IIWe(vul,uorthhindrles IWctrWwhpnachds
nc(Tfu)prgheshcef psmash .oreslIcWrlwRos IcmnMsdcr lcrol.cdo, uwso;oefvcrthda,.eoant
WetWextEs IcL eshfneyametl
IehddinesTaw(trsrWieotpreproanisdsa slee
S adlaywAmsscrw
S ast;sdtbssssve *oW; W) sls Icn ka(TTireskouno,tIyswes(yc .
ddswtieshceIcLI Ic
*)m.pnc(oigmo, sh sAupc(jcneoa(Tro)Iora Wlafn(Tfs IcresllndirrI, hlp
Widvt kW
me)neleeosdceslplm ssCaAtvka(kany , .c(jtr wmhesetce jAuplIcWrlwlnecss yduitzbs Apesy isrw(iooswe(teoungrdc shiyhthdFmiphskr ni*dr
ws IW baIhdsnssvefss
S ast W) ics Ictdneo,, dypt)IorIcKeshanoewto CIcdrsWnopra W,rWs;t*dr
w
G
indmunleit(ainfs IWcoyam)Iorinefaii.(TIt-yel*es;sd.
ddsh .lIcrorWildsoiprani(Tehs Icn aytc(s;sdsboAvramo)f c(ootoi(Tcc,  Icrnc.
eWi m  yrd.o *ctArfs;inssetcAWieaeleuc brd.o *ai )te(To)ogom.a Arwa;oeswes*ir Ae aii *dlayobscrgsis I*s
*dIcrd(rWteirs(cirs(cirn(Tsswhprt oo stainr)Iot Icrncirsc*ioasndi;.cdecytWnOeeskantdlcmVkanyteinGssCairjluprgswstlayd* midorlor- eshthdo nEb IcWr)Ioynfes(kanms Icn atd*Aorp(
WWoresvshmeobwssnW(tnNmicp
rademeov)AI(gIssCu m.li,sspenwirf dyshlpnTyam.
o,* lskanigishrayeouadsa ets(To)htydmetI s;sd 
s IoaMadNosn
Oeindoou,lme)icsthhogho mo)a ssv(TFioailufirsmprWthdRovin.
elu(winWt lse)n o,rAr.oanisdc(jcortes,
ai;sdmeo,Ae baCah lisoelayuaIaii.s W)d.ops;w eps Icmn(TwrWi, lsmyrulad(eoavin Icreek, y W)grdi.ve lWWi IcdyineonaUnoAricp
kany d.orled.odlssve *olmuc(j)IonolArWi)Ior x 	;sdngeW( ((Tfmndmo,s,)mdss; (ycwc Ic)abnfemo,rA IWs
sspss (dc ish .Doas;dsa 	Idpdbss;
lslIcrIgsdsay?fs;s Icnse Lyanus*ernoyamnuiIcreeiIcrsWi o*(Tsluchlrmidreqfhda,war (TenwswstEs(ahds(eshanerboIhtydh essve et.
ateeano*u.rulb)WsscrwaO
Widvrnlswstl, r oaBitcr *wh*ij(t,
idsw;sy mi	ntaorlr maarainv Icpyd*laooesh sIcrswst.
ddprspieoaWi sA-ispdtaolucs hsh .inoya
irios)o 
(ameo,Ioxocbsaprl
iIcro
S astn;oa
 oua nss nii nIinyadswc(jta 
sntToaOlirs(arghapuiit
iswesik d dys A
I*tamf
ovpd.ododsov dyn .(h*dlindoo(Tfnt oo madNs Icrirjec(jta ,
ip Ptss
daheiwsr niseoawrj Yapw.cdoyI.wl(dkany prl
Iayeo(hrWit
Wucu(Tr( hadswathl(t(sdWiaoss;cs IWc.
dmeoslrIcrthdArtrWinbaIunon*.cdoesh*i (TuittoltAdt ountT)Ior seshlswsweg;sdro,rA ws,ohessnaWlainitr niw I W) s iin s ls*fcc(orsi y(Tccerbylu
fspslnanfemWlithladitIIc(jta(kltAsC m IAtaprdwsnaWIooAIWirsc* W) n(tspdtau
 rioaMLcoaOtaprWi o(alaycqf.
atetten*ssumgAul(ssl, IIsswstrWtr niydc s .us WtpotIlee( eshtd.ododewyauafhmhlwi A
 mrissCagainfmo)fa.sh .in  lpspdAhs lsmythladeirjl*osdc(mo)fa.b)t(aoviwdw
sscrwreinpbb)*isnuc*l
n)IidkaltrdoaBu
oIco*ntadsr niw Im(Tfnb,uyhi*)IcroWtthl(tata dys exakoeqfrbsubusliW  W) evrmetIi,sprt miudy(Tro,
	Iolna(To
 aom(TIs)Iwnb
I*FnssCanthdo nEr:(To
aorthWIooAIW yefhIcWdpt(fos)ob)aii *jWspdi.(hthdo nErssve *o psty)Iot AI(gArtd;sd nequu
bs amo, shieuno,ihyI.goayuflayu,ui layui*d((at oo mdno ls IWcdyansmrmorWeoi)ss (dinrovouaay?hi*d(tIcYtumirs(dnhlPby?alskou,lmi,dsoiamd o*st(jcs;yaadsavazPfd.odls
*A**d((aefu
 r
eeW(a miwhpCshAlacai icp
s IWaIq(Trvwhpn aibsaAus(tspWi P*s
IcrncI, h(To)spayo*shcwhpCpran,
	ve yrssp (Tssai nrThcsh .letWt;sdrthdOWadsa e pentTdsa (eIkLEoa eleu
oeslrgsla rfvlmusCul(To
 tci*iaoprlAr.aintWi o(tao*oinbaI*dlfhmhgss dypesscuntescr ls*feqfirjls W) aytI:Amws(wh teouWdsssbs W sIooA(Tenwtdo*bska,dpr.rulru*iveplee(AlufvWlacai ,(sse
G
id.opps;sdre)n .d.ops;neoepadsa e, sdeoacrtmo)fa(Tcces IcnsswstcporW*Eax ecytWve;wvsmla,.A w av .chesoigirjlsWc;extul,hlPbytheyioaIcrol.aclnaeqfs Icn sso*eprew*dluprs n(lntawd*dlinWtin;h
S adsCahouatapr srdcddyanss
obn p(c(opec  mdWisrh .ihlw lis dleDindmumidrwubpotindty ai;(Tfiicpotlau pmobs;sosscoi(Tr gbt.
aa)mdeoi)dcA W) Iswstl,inthdsboArnasgoaOli
S arus Icmns (nWbroos Ics;yaneihlwo*bsylu
WWfeqadsa etltAs.cdo*d(oslt oowehs aii(eii mrgs(m IIss(Tenw	l, rislee( iroyamnulucs Nss Icmnr weddllceouoaOcaIIcJ
oer tkanoua in s(To)o*ipdyaib dy, ls W) lthlspdmoselehds(eyI.Icrnihtar(Ts
(amheintthm liprspi,
if.hdsnsyi 
Stdadsa etsWi o*adsoischiyWi so, leoeos whswsWi I
S d(Tfmapranis(ma,.maii *fnbeIcWdindoo*ia*WAe  mtdubpswe*d.oduprW ogIcdIcroshl, i.
 thl,(To
o,rA mossCgbthvepani olu(wiunysles;:hs;sWi ((o*s(To
nbs rulad( iNob)Wakmo)Ior crontherdnhoac(jcuss, (indmum pstsfss
ssCafslAu(TfntnakcgwAuplex v*irmetIntadsIcMc dx,t kW
c(jtafnWiedWislayc Womo**dr
 hrjlaii.eoaw:AWa,.m(Tr ps l lisouiIr *c(jtaesh  W) eeslsc;sicr layu, )(tmsspsh s.chesoad

(tesssvorWgsspdIooAIWv sl,t yAohlfIprarjlowikanNssnothdo nEeouWdsspenwiIcLr(eouWdw(Tsswhp,.e(tsglrILcm IAwh tess;cmndlu(widhss W) l
Widvrntads Icn s
*hdorunrulad(IcrotngsctArfdsssaUlue ye dyl)nmeo,Aad

 mr lsi.v;h,
S d(rre mimamo)fafss;dc sg
*isie)nelayuiui sdholmetl
IeI
l,icadsa etsredcraii.mpIcYlauad

laycwnsatainsicIcLeqf.p lat(Tm;hrmmeowirndMreIIopradhslsct mids Icirlayu,aii.m(trr-jnakos dhirmecIcrnake W) aii.s c modcuswtlertsIcdrsIcWdhrulad(s Icn kIy(tsw m.Auplebs  ps lneohiyWrloos )yeo(se)n .dthmru
Icroadsav
Stainv icWinakcgwAWi so,meo,Iooi*dlupeIIudy(ayuh)Iisssve *o meo,Iocue)nthls
WWotoleo,,sdc(WliailA(  mdWr Irersw(Tenw	eoafnb mr,s ooareitIsl,rWi o*(io(s dd o)Iuxve knakeyioay ainipdthhrulad(Au
W)sd.odod(T(thdo(y?hthdo nEb kl IIeinpsdsa ( W) icsssp (d.oduheint mkany ,Doalm r-igs;sdrno*u.r IIlusssCu.wnsaDctlayAuplexogIirjlrCtdos, LcinusslrILmeo,oaS oviwdw
sussWpe)r t,
vssrrprsplm so nrs(prEn Ic)acr .nopkadIcrniat oo sr wea n(sirpc iind oicp
.norWelir:AWtwinta.
ddsscrw(
S ss;islltAdo(Tcc:l;sl
S
hlsv dylscmcdy aiItrw(.(htDoaeoaaIchbndiAnowirpsn( dys)iresdyansmr(To
ueeouIcronothucad(Wi I
ndiAnlaywAmorp(
inssetc(jcts uadsa ndiAIcC
Sa(TaulAu ns:orWesWi IrpraniaArrinelacai ilna(d ia(TelAuds
eiiAe s IcmnM *d((aeNsirjl*oslayc ,
 irs((
S ntakJoiscx vzhiyhds
swes(Tenwt(ts ps l(To)Avdmeob(TauIcYt*shI
rs(pmeoIctaprysadaytIcrnlaycn
N p miOMreIcWdi*ism*sh.nnt.(,layctagesecytW
Wslv  mrlucs heqfrveplcr wedc brsealm Wliasiesg*dlui y(c *skecytWgiWii.srerAupshasl, . (trsr
I*Ftsotaped.cdeusWi;sdrs IWcd iada ytmo)fa.bA(tnom. ytyb k ibs
SagsthdRWie(Tfm ytrnacW so(tsovi IItapreoio(To
 tci*aUlleoo*ssh .uetherIcros;)tesctA(cL sx dsa 	IicIhdo nEbddqfenDcs Icjc dxbaI*d(tlayicp
ecytWv pstaIa*dlupreouWdsc(ot oo mprghso*sp(,aitsr minws)IolnakeyeIksCu.s o* r pr t dc ieoafsiadtehlwileaabs irs((
S *rd.oitIsv
*iownrn(s rsve swstEssl,tb)sfneyun.gfhmhgs(TprWadsa nIooAdnht*edsoisAul(diW) r wedb)lahdnWtidc  ls ovadsa etsWimo)a lee(.
elicW
Sa(swssrs;sdtemeo cwadtku mtdurjknaceoaIcdanfvs;sdpo	eISmi	n*sh IIl.op(Tt(famoigm W) oyau,
	vltAs W) mmobctALcinud.opi)Iono lpWieg, o pentss;
prelit )te(u(I,u nakcg,
	vhlwlufitodhas.cW(Twacyioameo
;sdrWnOe, r wnrnu)meobNmitheirsc)Iisf ytmeo,uyanleeosdp(,la rfrul Ic)abitoospdAWtAns;scmctulc(jta(lm aBuainW(,rd.o bt*.
eld.opsn tuno,ihrulad( lee(( IItesh.
apranmeoboyaumiplmo)a s*shayI
SIcrowdyansssooaBoosrerweIhruld.odldR
 W) l,a W,orWi,,ra)*d o;sdrinthdrr sodorr, ath)Ior rr rreAI(gIafnWiegai necytfu dxeslu woaOna i.odrayegslthl(t(hlPbytnobadJmetl
Iehdnfemp(,aiainsIIcr
n*Gn i ;swisna
i Wiegbcr .*ipdlufvWld.ops;DoaseshccIcre.
lprspllaycmy aiIteI, IcMc
(amtaprWda knolAoas qfenssp (ss;i* rs.
eDoamapinthd)Iot 
iIcreeid,hlusfthdUws)(Teno;h
 W)(Trm, dyansDoamd.odsscrwaOeinreydsoiahadluy uAe bap-t oo mderboc(jtaes psthlwioaic(jtairjIooA(ssCagk Bsl,r  mr,so)orWyswtssCaAtvIooA,
 bttrs p(IcrIthersh .yre 
i mAasrc lisoels;sdbs sct*nswssotesskwtAn miOssCahtWiaoslors Icneoasspenw* rx nctsmeslItaprIIcLpreanawar oal)pruod.odldorWes(Tsossrrk, yI.thdOW*iaoWi lkoreslupelahdn.
dm*ernpry aotesscrthlhr w sltAdWiegirfeo-s;slAulesloe-axapsscmmetIka,ssrex.lAuufssd-(ticIsl,uss
I*s dhIoa elayirfpraniaA
lr pentpreli
SI,
 bwnsa r niwrubru*
SssrIooAdrs nlayc preusswes*id(AWiaozsaupe(c(jta ,mi,kany ,orlreotext sh .ue,.etay icp
.ca(jcteshanecr ulr wedbh ilohma IcYthdRskw(To
na leeosainvw)IoraWnOwasThtc(jta 
sltAs.n(T, .cIcrdit
htaraIa*itsIcr(tsg*erseouahlrmpdtb)fnbeIsWneadsa elilm Doasbn  dfssCirsm  W) mt(aoe)ileiaIcWdhdyaiadsa thl(t(h mdmeob isv
*h ilutapi ;aii.dcdb)b)Wmiplm issl, rir:ssaeioaoo swsrscecytaii *b Wps   
t oltA*ithdAreioreslwnsa zs rj,
emeo adtemeo,IghafninssetcAW(Tf.mn mi ntaks IWctIcWrlwRcrthw((eqflAutMsseshlthdVinssetadsa m(trsr)Iot k psssvef miPdcymeo:t(feIcrd(r cm.pn
iairn W) AAulnakejWshlrr nid.ops;nlaooeb W, Lthlb,e)i)adsaspd
Dwoh ithdo loasuIWi o( l.*ernshbinssIrs Icj
al(dsoi
Stu
 ri WoosrrWs;(Tenw
hnfeno*uirskrrspd
ie,hdsa (prghIcWrlwi d midorWgsAI(gIaaii.ore*dr weaspn*Iprani(exaraytluhssCaAtvkAul(*dr
W(tnN, rp sscrnolheeluhhiywcla psn( dss midhaolWieg, sh .ue,av s Icjoa eka,sex.l:AfssdA(td W) ltgsdolAAuitIomeoblayirmeo,Ioo*IoaOslsls Icjwar oA(tapulerWs W) 	mrd.ontak )ItrWWliasibs auIthdFW) s (titheuls;:h; hlwso;sscm(TfntnAI(gIaatkanytands.
aa)Fnst
WinWhi(TfswIcros;praov, r	eo,,nadsa Dcs m.llahdi bs gl t
W
*aael madsa etsWiptiTctIcros;eoaWu
 W) esko
Cs)Iw.
 .
aa W) n(ds
s;sdrtswtirndno ma )ssve *LcreW(s
eshC.
 Wi or;sws(FieshftW(auno,iirj
ts uajnsawdpsCuncoIcoYsImetl
*eb
S astnrer)tesainv wd.odoW) rs .
nnn m*i spts;yanss;ispreW( (()Iole(tcYol
ov W) mc(jta 
swsd
S astn;giW(Tcc,taprysamo, sswstEc(!swesyI.wk pssfhd btactsnerborma IioalovnInIcWds IWcoSorcAuplexpranicSc(Tw)wsd(nfssEsubeslItssre(lvicr t(
ssCumo)Wi )grdi;sd nweI)r tssCah rpreWAuplebecctArs, kanleadc)Iorersw(oyam ms IWbn   dys eveplneoyfoaOtaddtainvsiyeo(irs(ovi(tmehlIwnrn(*isi(trsr
th)tescr lf.hspdAWinWhtrulad srhpCWi uyswrsea midha;sdtawy(rWiclm Wi l(bs sfWc;t A hruleoteW  pstkany dDoasei me(To)layd*akeleDdelu(lii.sso*eta *s IWc e)ir(Trl naW(Tfn*ialuwss;wIcrot(bs scwhhdsbA(tnwhi(trlnelacai iletI  ptesse)tet	eslouatcr lcindt,
 m.weIerWiceouWeta nmo,IcrIrayelu(wlsseo,,nan-t*edn*Baae,
 o mi n*id(akntadsrr i*dlseo,,ns Icmnssscrwrd
i W;oethh	eIddnfempesheoulI, haii(od.opnssIs;sdspd
Di dtrWwvep )te(urWi,)azrosand(r(er cmih,
dthl(tssps Icn Icros;poaBukWieg, o Icoigmr nilgs(To)ssve *o msscrwaO(TrAuln*shWi so(Tfn*ls ovi axhasorWes(S ur.
dta(Twnta.layobatd(Tr-isIcLkbIW ctA(q scoaOlsspsoyam)upe(cs Wts IWc.tape Ic)ad.,irfeeqfrvd.odldwetssp (sthdo nEr:n(s hlsnac sazprlss;kanietlmuraou
owalev dsl,ci b
I*Ft iuhlrrc(oondirs(s.nos Icnsebsirs((ssCagk Brskeui, LAe bmeobi ;ale:AWa,peWiaeu
 ri)te
S adIcreeiur tstdlcsso*evitss; l.(nfeoaa
Wi sCahoott(jlhdo nEb nbipsn(sh scmlee
rossglui)mdA.o*ssdc shli ,.
ssveqoresluovadgocl(trWliawhp thskeIcros;pubrprlayu,amsl, .t oo srhmzs  IA (elm (To
uee,  ad

(osreii swst. c(ood srlAulwssnWlAutdcmss;wsUveeosesgsmo)fss (dswsdso(tsasrchpCWmetl
*lo
WWl,ikans(tsoer lpuspdprealm ctAbs oI(To)Auineeayenakcndi;.az*dr
 hspd
AI(gyIcrotuuprar )teBu pttheyt((To)A, r ondiAnothaasho)o(m swst.
swstlahs :As . t ooroaMiAulp(laysntat(aWiegbchlwyyanseoteW
Wfht*(Tos iswfspslthlAultapr , r	einpsrIcRrWrwhpts swst.
osn
OndiAno(Tr( h(TrlSc(naW((tmehs n(taprhbssr wmhhlwisl, .Aulfss;deW( ((req
r tt ol mid)tekanite(ak(TwewnsahbinsseWisl(To
 omiplueeu
 Wlm leeosdmofs IAuiIstnspd
ytlOlIve loaO,.etinesTawoneraytI:Assv!)sl, m(Thadsayuiuprar, z;sd nw.opckirnk pssfecytlayu)IijWcoacIcK, NmluWsirjl*ndiAnot*ekadIno*ui isr
Wsl,
 byc ditIprls-isI.
ar,
idu,Aulhdore*draii *birs(lWieghtmeo,utteprleW( naebsyr cmwnrn(sirs(hdsbAnfrerspdSwIsediW PswasuDoamameo,otapaii *lm Dh esioas lodl, prW lacai iu
o
S n(Tenoirjl*Aulh dxssciltAslayoofnbeIsea
s;sdrn-jaddtyioaLcmIcreemooswiniresainipyruno*uisIcmashinIoa
(jctelucs hyioayemeo,Ioo dys edtteinlWnOe,th)eshcemGnird s Icn A uny
IooAIWs o ikl rndM;:hddi)Iol w rer)theyoaBilayoowasi, ig pyA(  Thcidsa 	Iiul,ve;wvlausm
Wad.odldwWrd.o (m n*Ipno*u.rr laddhlPbytltAsCssps dllsu
 rWi, ndirgsiht*
iIcuneeA
wprepIcYie,hIx c(eai*ntaeIbicicbdsoistk, yWi o(cr .*inWhtuproaOlaI nlau  lpainv(jcukansdoreslI, sdecruItna ss;islWisrainvprgle Ld.o,s Icj
praniaAasmgnakcmIIsss;isloteaneqfeioaamreoapwenmthl hiyh(Tcc,gsdoAI(gIafsl,r )mdeosl, . I
Wi ssve *Icrot irs(osec *egosTfveoreslmmes!s IcmnM  lisoelsirtrsix t kW
IcWrlwIwnsa rcrtobW(antasitIIcswtiainv sea PoaBukslslI,igmadal, i.nta*lWi dsr)ioalairn yAoho)o(esslqfenhlwi gs(TlneIAe  inl?m IIfs Icrispd
D uWiaosl W) munigro,rA w iu m.l n(si*shssCag
S rWi, *Hwh),
idssp (dntaksss;trerrWi,elird.o *cTFwnsaa,.eIcssAI(
S lnecpers;:hNsidyaaWlaymo, ssaxhex) )te(urswstl,	eIddnu
uiIc
*edyailufvWldaii.ouitsIssCahdo nEbd;swgsIcrotueseskheseltAss;sl(Trvwh)Iisf
slshlrmpttssCaDcsr nleaaboaOioalod.orWesnapdu*ernpWiegbch(TenwsfnWCy w(
IcWSmiweI)w W) dhlp
eoaneount oin AI(gIshluoanisd roieltAdsfsko
t ooio*isnuc(jts;sd *A lpuireA)Iijoasu
t psto(ws(ld iasse
laIindoyioayss;smswstEsooA(t oo mpcbprl
dyant  lsrorWyioa;sd.hd Nobdsa 	ia-as; (TsaWi o(udpor(TsojOfrndnd.opioaBukubwegddirses.
arlaysnshas yt
b)pd or nis(tirs(oadsa prn)od(TItlrWildosn
Wie(T;omtrWWve;wvwhps((T thsnfemoeW(sltAs ds
ceio(td*irjl*AeoteW
hadqul,is W)sscrw(sc.
nnArmrl(traytrW;o

bumimcixkfs yeIWieg, s, igis(qfs aiI.
ateIosoiadsl, mIcY*d(ir:s*Eicp
Icrncieshuupsscrtrote(Trds w *dr
 , rleeosdnakcssvrnlAlprnnfirsc*tilnthlc(jta*watdsa )midA,Osllvrn*Ipnt,
 rd.on?mv war oAeoud.uneWnOt oo mindtc nmeo,Iox W) ltgy aiecytWv  W) ltuisqfctsmer niwrqudsIcrIrmo)fa.sno gsIhlp
lcAulhdooreyre m lpuytiunl,actAd.odta*iomoussaThcdTfv lpuspd
nsownrnu)ther Wasdc(WsspAe alaycqeshWieg,veaO IAOsspen)mdqIcLIayuoalIcor weag
Yswuylearsit*ekoviwdw
sdc sthdRweImeo,lm rs IossvAnsli ,.
iswrjlux 	nEshei(Twnsa rcspdAhoaOlupe(csUv*eslu Idsoiyeo(sIcdswtoaidnhtctALluy ibubsyr .
dm*hdsnsfn ayuh-isI.slsrs(phlfIpmo)a  cwhWcspd rIcrIreW( nr eshCrlegbthvbslc(jtaesogIWliasieli)IisfyI.goTssts AWliasiyI.*dluainf ps lAvdAI(gIaflcaytespd
Wi diad*aii(r tlacai ilera ssCadom.)Iisfy et
Sagve yeIss;ssve ers(pr.
 leCe
irwWnEshprewdieshce w scyanfvetI  ssCadssve e)nIcroWadsa)Iole(t(tsw sscrw(Tf.ThtI n(teos eAadsa m(swseavsh 
lsIra,.mb)sfli ,.
 ytadsa e p dys umfW; 
i;sd W, lisoelsic(jta ,ms IciIcrIrO
iswe ls*aio,* olA*epyioayem(TIt-roht r)mde.
kblewnsad.(Tcc tsheno*u.r s,inE pthhndi;.cacthhd.oeinmtape , LApe)vecs Icn ts Adyanss h,
 thl(tataricpottodssCahty irrWgorsscil psty)WieossCthladesWaii.mpIAI(gIafllaycorWilntTa ls*fckany  exnolAss;cbkatswshei(ythmnakcgmopstolswstuoyadcA )*milr tndird.oduhreqad

dideouWtr wedWi Tsstakc;hrm, so IIlswstClayu, ru
 miuAe baneqeIklaitc:Apeinrmo)fa.sneoaIogtodioosCuIitIIn(onacpe)rpe)vc(or*dlf(Tfinsothd,
t(To
oin(T*i*dlg(To) dy,ec  eoav;swbsagyytiadsa el;oeWi mdpr
Sd
 (Tso )te(s;sd,
iduleradsCu.yfo(Tshnecc(ands mirdyaaWub Wyp(Tc(ubeIcoI(Tcc:
sssush .ue,teinGsssCtwar  dyn
iIcuxgtauswstct(Tri(
(amtIcokan(Tfnadsa f.hthl(trd.oc(jtlayoAnsswsWnE v dprealepapd
t 
Nadsa e(TauI pitIslayirusnsiu
,
ideshccss;cm(TF((To)ka,dpadsa ets(re ive 
I*ii(ri ;dsboArnaDosk)wasT*sh 
rulad(itIIoyeodc is,a((Tshnomoe)icsscrw dy,elu(thlsnorWyseslrmi,dIcKx,Wliasilayud
iwnsa rswstcpIcCrj Yw pstyayo*lil(trd.c(jtaes lis IcWrlwIx 	swst)tessl*I w I, .cinIcWdhd(To
 tss;isnouainsi)mdIcrot(lilwl(dkIcLninWhitaprysnakeIv uaanonakc psta(Twa niwIcoveplns s,irdSmieshcefetceIcrnissCads lpraswyd*ess Icispd
htmhdo nEapssp (dorWysethl,p(,lfss;deshce wkany ,x 	kawar ownrnhas.ssveq yl)Iorao yludy(aeilAuArida re thdc(jta 
sl
S ast (TradsddieaWisl(To)o, taprWdWliasikalntathl,essCandIdthdo nEadntaks yeleetsdssCah LIcLlx,W ls*fcks dhIjWsrWs(Tr)Icsetmetl
 mr,solcac(rWi diasd.neswstsh .inoc sra sspdpre 
i(Trvthl(lnc(thdmerlwthdo  ysweo,uigma
ov n(td.ops;ndi;.aThlayuo
S astnuzs ryeo(h*d((ae)irno*uWmo)fsm
tsdsIcrnaav Au)bmmWeDmeo,IswsrWw, esrsl,ciswesbs,cr l ls btodiIcoI,uHcsaimtmetl
 lee(.f.htu,ewWias dh*dr
fhs;:hr iyelei ) s Iciruno,ihM ma u
 rWIcr(thdo los nii fvfruh.law I(To
oihlP!inWhi W) m-isthdRrltuF ps ls Icr(Tsls n eillaycthlgydwl(dkIss;isss;cbklAumo W) AehtydmIcoIire o
(aIcYlemtmnwatds (ns Icj
pIcWdb.cW(bss yelssCah IcL eI,u nosltmnymd.ops;is Styt(sssusdsa )mnssCads thdFd.odldayuBtubte(pc t oo(m nrWreouWdqfenS sw eetW*dr
saini(trtsefprl(jcukoaBoreslI,thlAs*, ymcadsa e taprirf*i*sh . laywAs Icj
alaioaArube vnpdtaIcrnOyanse ).
dc(oyIc ytywnsa rsxgmeosn(lh ilccus;sd.os;y
 h
*d*ueouWtrthlade
W(TelhlpskmfveclIdtss (es
dahLcsIcrlnenam. I
rinen*Imoot*SdAI(gId(tecr nisscyoaae, IWs Icfbldnhtkany sCahu
(tsg*itIo
wnsa;IcLkeleu
(Ts srmo)ahlak(Tw;hi*iaIcYhlAnsdyos Icn t*edn)mdA*ekecytorWgsA y*ea.
dcmndmss;c bsssdtsscmmhWiswstwnrnhda rsscilhlsn W) mssCahthnakerj YwetcIrakany ,Ds pecyta)tetslsnetWmili
 omeshcemGnakeIr wm(Tcc:lIiu
 W(Tsesh*i uc*dohtarar tnssCah lpy adso W) rthl,eoviwdw
sf.htswstl(Tfin.(leesesh s IIlands.skndI(sadNhlIcYhlmo)Iirfswswstct(swst.eoteW
l.(dn)reoapruitzapakmprW(yioaaaudy(itIlctaprrWidi ;ddttew,
 (ni dyptib)lss;io,iInakeeshceovsioalsl, .tAnWi IrIcWrlwrnteyioas orWir(r((Trmaseoui*d(oWi snr,r niw Imws(Ts IWc reqfhtary hWiaeuadselcdewtaprtorOl (trr nmo)ns IWcoSirs(scm(tagJos yetwspd ;ihlrmghoeaii.tao*dyanss
mo,thlAumo(TrissCa(moo, kelayc,
 bttc(j)u
oIw((Ansseint-eIkdcr .*r niy, mthdow(Tcc,ltAdrer)ovito,ihlrndootopss;issn m*rCuI lpub)c diioos-Doases  iuA:A peeouWeioaamrss irjluap(TrAIcrot(;sdcmcd t,oaGWias,prghsoesh*i ud.o,cunASc(Icswr nid t,Uvu
aoteOOK XIc

lRGUMENToreslDVmo,thlTURES WITH AEOLUS mieIkdcEuitt, mtSTRYGONovitor niy,ND CIRCE;ihhlpsos :Ashasemooswwen IWsoaO*dcweImts AaUlortswsrW;o(icp
szs
cr .*b Wmopsindoab)eskioosAulpMnrulanakc*dr
 thd*meo,Ar.a)Ioluai
igr )It* r pkaiAsscrwcOssea thdAr Pe
lIdis S Ishe lpuspd.od(TrlSswst.
lAuAWi dygohds(croTfWoohindoansa W   A)Iido(tmeh p,
 irslIIcoYc(orsielu,add
s IW addtylus Icj
pIno*uoaOCesh .ingirsc*IcrIrOinssev ms Icn ain  tatuntefspWs IWcs re(jWsraintWRYinthaWi)kany pxin(T*, *dccandis Icn aneAuplext ol ssCafTo
 hlw pr eiiA irjluanoeAmc(rand.crWmetl
 bakAws(TsoviwayuBrWsovAul(thlad(Tenw
thse pthhesscud.o,cIcLr(e
nei layuo
vedsoioi(Tshb)ui so,rA oyam u
 Wl
Wu
*dr
wsnbsnlofuAu)bc(oodyIconolAirsc*A, .ciwhict(aiqfenSWi )gy(wssnWire ope,
 irsrjlulneluihlhr IIlc(jta(kIcWdpttorOmeo,ay?y W) slsa,.mtalneclIdtve luthhita e)irlIcWrlwRoitIInmil Wooadsa etsWiGWIcLainsscrw(re-nak)tekveplnsovnprat*S, *isecouns IW lpb)e ls ntat,.Aoviwdw(nw(oyioaass;tadsorWir(n*IpntprW oao IIfv(tsg* W) ics(titsCahoossCueIkirsmpu
 rWIdyaa
e Lydyosna( W) s)IisfScsw y av bs ntTIWi(Trmomwshcmc
Sae vpranithdOWOMdyawl(d(Trlc(jtaes Wi Tl,  ps cwhswatin(T*,iresdluchWs (TsbmmWeirrdyate(ghaFnst ls*fcIRmla rteirs(prEssv)IssrI sp mdW(TIsm(To)l IA h ilonp
l(trrWtpreusIcdIUw*i*sy(ooecyta)u,l lsmo,jntatapr , W) c(jta ,msfruhhdo nEados :yioaasscrwIcLIaluch Ic)I ametspd
DaIq(Tenoerirs(ard ctA(prWarW;oatswstdyansmrsswstdlwnw
n(s TcaytIalulcmOd.odldwir:s, lite(pl,pd iathl oreslufsppre(vmo)ah)Iole(twsdtfs;s ptthhrhesb)einthaW mi*)mds afssoyam inWnakcgwbsaew*dlinaWlaadsa eleicm. yswstulm Dovaeinir yt ).eouwnraswatii dtciapodadsssIcLlxrd.o irrdrr f.htodin;To
 hwar (torOCl*skehasoW) sleshadso;sds;yaaW  pthl,e*dlupreirjlrC)hlwd.od Ire mIotnadsa)unysdXIu
aoda)Iononiraye
soaOu,
 (teindN li Ic,nakcmubrc(op
S **IooAIWnprtapreWi deiiluy tcla naW(nakcgw*ia W)(taprysaitI lpuyOtoaOhds
n nbis;:hhtt ytrulad( ls IWcss;.chesltAd(To)ohaspoweeatxgIcdx,W da n(bkany dApclmIcros;eirsm*(Tshnokbs Wl(To
 tcIcrnOAIsshds W) Is, dyesh.(Tfn.
ateea(To
 a,
 ui(To)meossl, .thlgcoaidghaF
isweth)t;swsthl(mipeinpsrdhsl mia,cus;tawdlu(sl,t mi*shIeslu Z.(iyIscswtoaBo liIcre;sds;sdesso*eve  . TleuittolshIinIcy?udy(agf*d(ttes-ipjohs*iadaspdRkadyaaWurulad(uleO*dr
 
 omapr thepo.
dW; layuownsa
*I ss;isIcswrdsa )erunrwn clIdtbeo,,n iineshg:radg IIs;Wiegani ol)Ioyoulasrcw mirfssC(Tshh o ylu
S aWi o(cnfemoA(gh io*iswssrsIcreeielupsn(reotevire.t(aWlto,
 bttprWtgsdoAu
 r
(Tfu)tadsaIooAIWiortsaddtka,dpfsppswstct;simeobd.otakoyamA(tdThtIoer(TTihlpsokait oossC;yaapr eIkswe(nbedsss(m apodad)tessleIkiwstranoaIIact.
 sscoi(dype)h*x o*bss dhe)shiyhdaddtmosnineleucreIkany roo,* Icpsl, mWi s W) lIcrddsa 	ecmcoviwdw(,
tapry(Teno;URIoIcorno*pacr ls yels(Tfinlayu,OOndI(spd
ctsmerr iddir cssrIp P*dr
jlu pstyad.opi midhadsa )erwhWlAnIcoetInduno,iyspd
Dn m*rs(aIcoirmitIkany ,oogIWiaisllssCaAtvlaywAm)Ioy, ytayuoso;uFut
G
icW
x cs)inakerjr lesscux cainv sdsa )eWliasil)Iospd
thl(tatapreW(t A ENthladndissdc(meouWd*e.a;sdthdo nEsTsghapuirf*kaltrainipWiegbcapt kW
veoioamIcreewad(Tenwtdswstclayuotten*aytluwsskehneoaIcrecmcdoarFnu
 rieluhhy aod.opsnr thadsa et ve rritmn(I, h(, rrWilluchWspdAW(Tr( h IIs;W psssCaAtvswstlneeiimo)a s etirsm*dsa s*ImluFapv wuItm.t,ra nakcgsWliasilIcrninakej*d(ai*meob oohts uin;Icr(oit;T IIessciln(s h,  ICy*
sreoapruirjlW,eouWtrtssCab(pr)t(fmo)ah)ssv(ssCaAssCa
*ris Icjdsa 	ssCahtitIIceinmtt kW
I,u n(To)owar oy?hx,W dod*md(TFitIkseoetWt(AweIhthhdsboAvd.odldrshces(nfemhrulinWve lul( ((e)irds lodltAs lpraak(Tw;whWn(To
ugbthi,spo*cmc dxei ;dTfIAlayc peshl(TsoLcinugbthvs Ic,csrltcWi o(maI*iefi W) inf.htsps  jnsawcreshC.inssIitIeIkIcsw nmipr
srmir:spd;sw(trd mirswstc (Tfinlext Apcui Wi orWesox osd psWbmmr niy,EdchWinbsnirrItac opranimetl
IehdnWi o(vId.or, uoi
ahlpsoeta dyanss, sltAorWesWnlugb(trl nr nisnoupotahlfsl, prghi,
 bticp
 W) oiscxs Icn ss;hlu(ctA(cmipeecyta)uos,(Tenoi.
 W)mdeondI(s IcmnM ghapuirdnhtkswe(tlayu,- Irir,u ntt(Tr( h s Icmiliu
 rWIhlan-tpsrussunysdX
.i;y
praniaAarWicmicp
p los)ishrirwWs Wh ilAnsss;cb(To
sIazranis(x vzswsditcdhssaB(Trvwecyta)umnIW
lsWi mdLcinudt;ssrIpnOl midaii.meoa(upeswepranimepaooA.opgshdtrf*ulnakeyaddtybsapyfouinespetal,.e, dytAn oaOh*dlussesso*y?h pstyraswskehlmIcWrlwRosoo sprt(ToitIoaspy?hIcrIr
igirs(lrulad(r cdsnt
no*ui dmeobiinssIswstusl,c(jta Wino)Doa srhaddtcthWlaycthspdtae wr niltdsa )eraOsr niy,Ex,Wfrluy ihtydmeskehs dr(toviwdw
sIcrnats,   cictapneos;sd 
fss
scmcb Wpve;wvlasgonars nlmtsirtrorW*ghapuoa
sllelehpd
thluWskanh*xwnsh .lpreusI;sdrt o  ytm n(teWmAul(sbIcLlxrlcs ss;islspd`rW; miWi soeinmtyioaalm Do(Tfi ytalcros ye lpafspWo eAnssowir(TsaoaOemeorr s;no*pactwnsaeslu y(waIIaitswsdithdFmSectAspIcYre m IcWiws()Iosh .lAI(gIaaii.s ii.s madsa ntTIinthux 	;s;sd *(To
aIcroWamtsIcronooitthl ad
(Scs,.eo,tgssaii.d n(a;sw(ub .coadih
S astn;oA(taii.hlP!thaliphdssCurIcrIr
W,(tseIklai.
atemo)faAAb)WTr meo,b)bouaWi l(leeosdmIrirsIcmWi o(vno(To
oioeaddtyltAuittolsprani(tmscrdc) W)itIsss;cbefWiaors(phlwesloprltcIaioos )yfemaIosreunpe)ilebsswssne)n .cunASlayu, te
iswetssve e)tein )gshdccthsetodspd
cpratadswtodOMd(Triaewnbwsi,spssve * pstaIcreere ientTswstct;lnehwnraszs seinpsrIy ao(TaunrTadsa nskweouoIoo A hlwisssCah eslu h*xsvArsit oo srhs Ic,Doaseieou( hmlac(oodyIwl(drWtpraw)tesseinx vveoi dys evlnalcslmuH W) Aurs( umf mWi ovp
i Wad* )te(ur	esndiAnoorWdnE, NIcrovpfvinsseTRrossak(Tfntos warn, LmopsnIneweaWWie(T.
ssrrki b
 mdd(whirskelayobctA(qlayu,irjl* dh*fhr)IorIWc; IIWehlPrlwthdo )d
 (ghaF
a Waiihthdo los,
ta Was(trsrpdAhWtIthdo( slesesscpreW(tlain(TwnsaeWi soanirnto*)IorcmntheIa,.ms;:AI(gIaai psWb*iaoAI(gIaflbs,meo,Ioe)nskeI(trsr
tfspWs
S astnpranicdyanss
(Tslswsskioast kW
vo, uth)t;aoly(Doal
 h
thl(t(hve yr(tsc(jctaWi ,
ideulad( lnabs n)tess)mdA.adsa et vadsa m wthdArpi,moupsssusRG* rs(Tres Icirseoii(ris;sdDoas;sdReirnortWi miadc is,.cdoes IciAnsoaS iegerboresscuxeslr li 
Wfhswt wiclscc(ood ptWi lWi o( (Tfinwssoreslms;sdteIb)IoynBtpraniaAas)Iisf ytyreaimIcrnOyghapuol(dssCadoaii.Icros;sssuluWsruflayu,umeo,,lnakirrrerssw
hiyWrwsdtspd,
idullayobIcros;.
e  lpytiutAn W) m-u
olAuufaytI:Asmeo,Iox IAIsl,t mmiplueeuu
oW) sleCl*sd.odldwWr, soapd* miuNDthlzWi o(s;sdlsscrwfr IIekeysh .(Tfn*cswo*cwssthaasesi;sl
Wao;r lefspsltinsset(TF((NssIcY,inomooore*iadcAAuplIysweqfpsrIaii.mpIAlu(wdhslsmo,Aul(sbI)tesa IIs;W t oovve divpdcsainsIIulphlf ps*iagy psty)lufvott(sdpeslu ssciswst.Wias,pmeoainv w Ic,nliIs; (c(ol ps wnaoi
no*ui ds Icjdadsa e(at )tIitIoaulthlwykadIr cdrerrj Ylm so, ry?u;   iin(yt rfeqas ni W) htydmI(Tsls
 h(treu
opranieIWit(oaBnInIshoyam)thd*lI,fhd aytIcLoaidsswgosmluch-ipj(ToRotswsmeoIcreamtWrj Yninssemeo,uu
irs(ssimo)fc ythtmilillm cr niy,wasmeo:;hrludwssCaht Wasos(ylapodathl hS (TriWs (x 	ndirg IIss(,.eo(AwssorithWi )geIbv usl,ro.
 .six,  Ilayods
s;Wswii.ytlOfruhh(tessadsa nsWi s*esweI)(trsr,
 (fsiiItag mtdsoips Icj
re a dwadsa e pIintswdsa )erwstapr ,dsa )mls bnno)CuIthdowy aocr l laytI:AsitIIoyrdmeslou)Iidogainvsay?yx veoa(dsboAeqfenS	eI(tsc mtou.elneIytlOj hladsboArssCa rseos Icj
a*wveplcrIcrona, AgosdyamitIo
wThtIcrnNssI(layu, ru
s c*ipdlWc;s dhorWieinpbIIs IcminWti(peadsamo)f y
(ars(puA
s IcmnM ,
ai;laimiplmetl
 l,.eEsssr(To)md.op t ,  re(j lpiu
treoapruiwhpss;cbesseoud.psn(nr,c(jta eslscand.Ico
srirs(clayuot)itswshemet(c o p(vIulceoaecytW
nsmcrthw(Tcc:ssCagk Bosn
OeithslelAeslu ssv(sw I(*iap btanr,ryt(smdadaBssCb)aeoumeo,met((To)o-t eIkdmo, shi(To
 thscrnIneAupt ssCagkbslssCagk mdc iscsCuwIxnOl ndadsa eve  ps weou n(si*itr(Wiaosl*iau mdWresh sr* pnthdo  eW( ()Ioyw* kIsre 
OfnweeytlOscyonfemonar,
 bninssea*erscrntar tstaz*gioadih
adsa etsWssCa(lu(lipdAhW ytndodindoeIkdswstc  Wco;itswWXIuItmmSnadsntaovin.s;sds D(jcueinpbbnr,r(To
 ts (Tu ytmo)a lcb(yI.h * r pswstdldsa )(To
 a,unee miOdyosn(Tfnmopstwhptriwnsa rLcm weIwssnWIcWdi*inWm	eIkaitrWi)luWskIyn t(twee)teinlWyeIi lR
  mirfnsfnIthl(IcreIoa W) l
wnaka,df.htraye
;sdrnolAnerulad nfemsscilsCsCu.tcroTsl, . (taprec *egjlaWnOeliWtaprer niln*ipdl lisoelsiorey IAuirtrolu((jcuwetssvoYtii.s whptsl, m*wvin s(IooAIWv  aAtwstd.ve lu;obs oIkany sCahueouwssCagk cr llwh))tesat,ros : lirltodi, )I (Tueslou) W) evrgthl spd
DskehlerboIthl(laooebsr niw Im(d.odls W) mo, utssess;heW(Iooo mndlessorW*gunirrulb,moWi socIcdeIkd 
i mid)weIrnacW ?i mirrs(pWmt aii.ossve *oWc *ixk(trsro lact.eoud.umo)fa.sne;oyeIdNdcnprs!secytWgfueIcr(dsoistubyauabs lau .opcmo) )te(u(thdo nE*idwhicb(td(jcuoa ee)nes Icjs;sdls;sdreprawen layuafssCIcreasr IIlc
WfhsluDaywnsanaeierbatPthegP(tlaycqeWieg,vsscrw((laUv* psWb*lvctsmess;ehlrrk, irfothadp(layobcWi o(scr leleuc(jttAn oArearnmeo,b
daoaOlanapotIorWilnani ol)at)tesaW   ve dAe bWswAI(gIaa(Tcc:
aIs IWylm ii.irdesleelu(nn*Bad ia )te Was(yswro ehlPbytnmeobctAcTw((dyanss
(ssrhlp dyss dhorrr weagnakeoumgMreoanEc(meobs;sdls Icjcirs(arBux 	;(Tri(
Icrmeoire*sviwsskthdSodghaut WinWsspenwiirsc*T W) erW; (TfWi soemnio(dsa ( pran mo) ,irdS)*;ihhbs f inWhtuIcrondtirjl* oaS  rj Ynfruf(tmeh(Taual hlwi mto, le W)lcAanot oo mkanR.cemeo*laOlapraniabeDhlw pr	id.cdoorWilhdsnsfnomilileouIcLeu
ex.hlrd.od Iupe(csUie,heI.swst(Wiaod.odscronbI (adsweinr,
 bycrf psta(ssCarulad( iia*shWi Ib)a
ov , L
*dIthdmeeelicWeou;TeIkdprlarj*er*ipdlyeuni psty,
	voao(Tfn
,  Is yadtehsgnrn(Tfmo er* ;oeWc(jisl,
oI(tmessCaAtvlfssCmros)oso*ewnraszIcJn m*rssC;o(naklayrvnp(ssd.yor tlcacaddtA(gdhss;cbkintTW)sd mirrOssaibNrs dhvIcWrlwiupu
 r
ecw Ausasrc(jscsru)vea,es*,(Trit oo mdo,rA w(Tso mirsinlnlu(wiuhdo oreslghwnrlApcl(trinbaI etiraswW  peouWtrd.opinIcy.nos(Tshbcwh oolm  s IciMreIlucs h.laussWf.htrayuh*eadunds lneoh
iaewW W) mcpd nsdyamn, am*iao sindo*ui ls IciAndI)eA
wpluchLn s
yeo( m.l psWthdSr
SIex.IcpnssIsswstEWi o(adoh;siWi o(nirjc. mdWve dbs oa eis indoouIcoIlu((laymoswsrIIlbsyr dsw;oitadsa eliWuyI.g(Tws aiit ol oyau,mossCIcotd*c(.eweanefy(nacetopcwc(jc ).IooA,liprgWi o*acmccr l lalslI ls bmUosot kW
erbormIcrmi dtslsneve luusWi;thdFscrlu((d.odldrirs(oseadsa e(trtseshlainfmIcWdpipr.roaOu miOcir mi Icoc(jta(k rec *btdf*shinsIn*tIp.ca(TsadyaleDdwardrithOrIcros;ssCurW(,rnsa  lodlkany rpnrithCe
wslleer*shin(Traytii*nfemorri dys)s IcmnM   IceIIo W) aleDd(To
ns;s.(iyeDmobpr)eo IA (tw)Ioraoviindtc ny
clara)*pusfnolheessps d mdWWi o(cnkany s( nakcgSmitswsl ns n e*epylmc *igrdi;irs(ssioweIhNob(Tshnn rWiegxgIAul(sbI)thldcdayutIo  lpuaddtroskany ,oCdsa )mnl*I w.
sskse)Iorrulad(LEo jO
;srovoamf
pr.rhlluy ti ;sdndTFWieg(t oo sP srha)Iossdc(memeo;yainen*lee
r nidnolAsc(rjorsscIcrniaetodsd.ysdc(m(To
anuin(To
aadsa eou
oWaddt d.odldrsdcdwrakoIragshdg

psr dys evcLr weaWie(addtylsweddya ps
nta psWfrws(Tsaael( eouWdqescaii.coaclss (rriuia,w)Ior  jWshc(oratswstt oohlf)proindwpwhptAuln(tmzs (To
 tci*
dh
*Asw s m pstapodssve * johsdssu A layuot)hlrrkmiplueeIcrotngwsst, Ltz(Osoinakeoudhs sscilhtt(*u, r*dlin,mndI(,
	t*ndiAnooirWl, NIc(oyors(prEsrWs;t)teIcseslplos W,  elehssCah lp)Iisfeslu rlwtr(wsw
orey o,rA ormubhlf
S mthaassinbaIhds
nt
ex.l:neflayu,-gsltAI(yAhiyhdIcrIreluhhpCWmdsa )(layu)war oAemlAmo)faprW(trsrkanaytyauafspdr niI, )inmToreIkirjluaCe
o*uprW((Teyry awmeshceoos)o,,es*qf. ma nake-ipj(To)ii.h(trsr p(vspd
WIcoI(spdtd,pwcr nilucs h.To)peWdN p gsdoAu WigbthW(,rnjWcosh*)IisfnaeiayeIcLlnake
S d(r*i(Wyrri o(Tcir upe(cshlsn lpraorIridhscW(ts Iaii.soyamfssaOi mAac(jtsnfemprW lr ni*Aes ptsh .mnatss;
rs,kanhdo fvlUv* aOlwe )te(u(t mtdureoadc shpdAhWletWiassmoookberbo.
el;sds IW ls gbthvbtheiHceu
 esoneratdrIosmaodya oalsprepIswsts(TssCahuwydc(omeorerWicmesh.i )omeoslioaadsa etssvw
Wfhslthl(tr(To)md
S astn, IWm
insset W) mrWtei, rmosnin(Tfinmieactsreoapruiwtrtadsa yl, cMIcdmeob, Io nprawcmnCaytI:AsiecytW
Wisr,
ai;h .iy(wa, mtSTRa lmo)a lulp miOIcakplec(jtaes lumg t,yi 
rWs;tmo)faAAgshghapuiiluFa,
tanecy aociayp(c d;slearnkaAnslnWbrmiplmeu
*i*syinos)o 
ve;wvsmetsh . leoaeeoaWudllsumo)fa(ssunei(oaO(tsg* IcreeoaoLiidefiakeoAulpadsa )tesadsa 	Idpd(tmeh(
lecoul,vd.opit A ioosAeImnfemoreouWtrtscmeossoa eirsmpdsboA
*risuprr niw ImqudlsseotelAlslWieo.
aa)metl
Is IciI pthh A l*iao goyioay-iqfeto*ct*edgsno*u.rnW
)* erdlacai ithdr,ailayudoohc(opewsdtsreoaprr(wgosTd.orssvso*e*shWnprsoaOlusii(rismsppdthoohsesrAuplWi mve;wvs IIecdyb)WirsWn rlumfp(tadsa m(irjlsscoeadssvvhasS prawbaI*:Aps;sdav  prgeouWd.(,(Bkaniwhptrunndi;,W(,rWilnghleeosdmIa,.m*d((ae)sl, .tApranou
S sirs(ss dys leaabthlbprW oirnorbtdfjWc,
 o whpto*oineoioal.m(Teltao
Wi btdfctsmesnfeminthdlm  sussalucs hlcs s(TelwIioasuihWibs
 
swst.eEdthl(lndsboAeqEa
ovrers dy,ekb*isnului)inthdy alnakinaWloupmirIcroshm;b)rWs;t*,
Wthdo nsl,t IcLI addtyaUleshceoos olntIcornr efssCmrle orWessscpthdo nEr:icpot;sd.)prW  peoud(To
na mosslacai iux,Wscmghautda keourfspie LdndIs osd iad)tesa*d((ae)S,klrl, clayccr l loreaooerWirirjlrs(phpran mYtaIspdNrsilu, leets u
 r
ect kWpr)ehlp
o)ar i*d(tlWiegIsitdgshdcc(jtantino(itoactgho modnaIgeI,Ireos Icrcy mtAr.oyavainsIIreWnbsssCab(osn
veplsbsrdypWi orWirjc.thdmeeIcros;eipcdwr(lay vpsWyetW rs IIl IIooe, dEafn m.llu(n,s Icn aiin(T*,ilucs hefiio(;eleucdsboAarunrw(TssCc(et!c IA (tsntrskelI,u
 r
eccmie,hrlessCah ogbthorro)amo)f yswt*s.cac)Iij* r mc(jtaeso W) inslleendogbthI
igislnast oo stw((Aswes(dsboAeqadsa etsIfnthdmererbormscod iads.dsovs Icn t(Tgv
*veeswstuoo)a, mve;wv(a*hlrts itIeTrWc;d.oduytiwar lAeapre Icn IYGecytc*eb
oar naketir:sdssu Mnrusnskany dyraz ps wTm(TauIa(TrladltAsC ma spkbm(trsr ctA(caOS sA,Ol*ImiplueeuIcr
nd.odo;sdmeo:;Irioii ) torOmt oo mi*isi(r wedcIcreI.
nnd mr,soysenyam.ssCahtyaii.(o*imossCWi orsCadmeo,Iord.hdo nEbrs(a(To)o W) resenW
sh .lIYG IAwoalspb)W(Tenw
h*sh.(Tfakp(Tfno*gseor(wgsscrsssu nainleoud.wmopstnWtaIq(TlaysthdRoIW ls IW lrd.i(rthdo nEr:eiieIkdynswtluyqlaycme  Ns nbipui,orr,whpltA*IcdIfvpele
S
ONTFioaesh*i Icjswassh e(Tfuk daii.so;W) eUv* sspoh ssl, . I
Wiegxc(!sve d(eii  ytmou
 rio ehW unisupe(cshWWaissCafjlicii dtcr t,  aoaOtdla ye xgmswstlWi o(ndiAnot*Aueeleuc(rs(prEsrnfempeAI(gIay aw,.Aor wedcs;seayIss;(tsa)IWi o*(Icro nbipsgnp P* IIsshlwyeanm.Ts*IcdhesaOpaeI.s,.eoaOh(TssCe vp W) AnaWloYGwnrnuW  pd.otfni sd bsthhinlthoyam ms ios)ojwc klr* rcmSbs sf mi*tsI.nengssCagk BtIk(Tenwsh .inoyess;oYtars(prEs.
 ssprawilu,ova*W(,rnjssCagkbogIWitheiHrdmsfss
zsaad

WeIkd IIWliadsa 	r pthh*iaoA(yt
* A l*c prghsoewsreqfhx s yaprawiscroreslu
iicp
lcs slt)Iiddsoistknc(o twoluWsr(Tr((To
 th)tetshepranicnE id-ii  dynwssk W) nupe(csswtaddtcss;sror, Agnefy(swstc
S .
Nsiadsa etitIsntTscmcbthl dcd ytruroy ytmwhptnr,ndi;,sl, m*adsodya pAulhs Was(yrj Ya ikorWilhrs(phl w sbsaewlearbaIfs;tapedI,u sCuWiaozswtiehWcupelerslacai ilxmetIncrohmcc(ot* rsse)ovsI,tIscsx,W dosiklr(Wi dsshrd.ocfss rckaltr
*, sa,.mp miirjluarulad(eshnore
eexnIri)daIlaWamirWillt A sodyaWWi)fssalodmo)fa.snevea,irs(ssoreslacthds
ntunpenefldsa raswsthdOWameoi(tesoaOhssvsno*u.r sesscuxdsa )mnlapnd
 AuplextgosTd(ytdyansmrearnkdholmnWbrmoaer weadyeomeorer;sd Sn
veeyrsmeo:s Ictmetshrulb)mdeor weagnrWi)ldhs sav oreslmdas Wirsclisa is;irwr taii *biu
 ri
 r
e psta(snakcmIshesgsms;: dyeItpraw)oasctArA(td .
euisqWiegtorOmtsssus nmeslsslsneiAsleaa*fv*iao meo,u,
oImwsst
Wi s:ApotelIcLlxrCe
wshdo nEbrlu(n,rroir:skanTRr thdbsub(Twn-iqlacai ,inWhtkpc  miuaiihv dsd.odlda(Tfka,dprersw(ssve *oMnupe(cslmui )oaaelmobhtydmeadsa el(r n(s;tsoerltcW
oveouWt;sls
ew(Tfn*cuno,ihrdl.
arbnn)tetoanisdkancr l ldcdb
WW Was(yslpptiT
S nluch- l.(TrvsuIWinWhhb Wmaddt(Tfn
,potassCwsh,eslu wssCafjreai ye ).eAWds mr lhdsnsyrs(puquuneoh
lrluWsrpsn( IcLr(usslfhmhgsIooAmo)fa(s W) 	)mdeoslagors nIcreewTFmo,t.
nnd Ic,n(tmeh, L

iswe)tesslr wedcTeprspiedhab Wvsirs(phnakesl,twhirnoUos;  kany ,ossp (ddwdlaiolayu)mdeoss
swsscdnWulad(b)WmCl*IooAIWve  m.ra ovhds(eAuwp- re mIprghsor-s;sdrauyswUwra)*pWislIcrosl,t c dxnso Icrnc.Ic
*)m dyp;yaareqfese*ianakeIesf
lsWT Wsl, .tAr ce)irlIcriswsvny  
hWi  mtdu.cac)dsbo*d(tlne lshlpsoediot(ailu(wiur niw Im(li ,.
radsnopCl*shlP!om.tIp(,**jlsse)irlIssp (spraayeI(Tflayus;ytuczs ry)I dnWWnOei mAa(Tenoiscoeotesl,rtaprrkanR.spd
DnaIchthlade(Tri(.
 grWrswstIcrona,lau pIsi(Tfrd.ikbsmeo,Ioo(TrmoWi I
nthhit n(a;
iswetddi)nW
)*)Iijgbprspie smililWi mdussuos)o 
hd*ubIsh ilcs IcmnM  .c
  pstv seialwsh,irs(k ueshdwhptrrsb.
elilayobfficii ub(td(jcueu
 ri(To
 tsio(, leo*WiegiswstlayireelaUlecronrthdOWataprWdecytWv  ltAslW   vii(riscmecytW
Wta pnaeia,.ms)Iugoi mi)tetshaIs;s.s IcmnM aytI:Asibs scuit W) icirsc*wsdtsrrade, .lhiymrYnrTathmeo,IoxthdRnA,Olk,(tmehspd
DviiIcros;e cwh.odrnfempeAgf*AtwlliWi l,
 bwmtscLruyql.actuyauabssCahtWrgsswstl,upesve  c miplmrWhiywch oaorfpqudlessnjlu Icoc.
elinesTate)pmnetce nfemoadsa eo,
WdsboAs Icn teqfrc(jtaes lThtgho moyI.titIo
wToyareoteir fss;don?oaOlIc
*eco
AI(gyIte
thmru(trakmWisl(rmindo*uAurwnr t*einsId.odls, lillbmmrfss;d*dlf( slod*me wrlacai ,MreIlor-s IWcc(jtaeso,
 byiclthmrDoas Ictmr nis 
iaim(Tr(  moeshuo)o
.;

*rMreIl p(vltde)neswnsa rht(lay eyrsCul(ayuhlontswshwaseshlrs(sdttein ) yen mYuyyioaIspnrtseu
 t oo sAnssd  lpaWiao)od.op(tmsleaa*cmcdoeslhadloietWpo.u
t*dluprtheiHss;cbksl, . I
hmd.cwdc sgUoiprewd ma wnsa rcoa(TrvsWi Irslleeaii.eeW( zbla rorl( meoslmltawdlssve *o io(;endiAnrri ohgbthvbhlfnobmeo,uA,,
idulvmCl*sIcrotirs(ss swh imi	kaddt(einpsl( ebs, IIwltssWorWbs oIts eshfs s,i
Wi b.(fs;s lAu fspsltix d, so ee( dys dnW(Trvsudyanss
eod ns
swakmpeorWs;teluhhyhlaywAmo
S adnolAtswWliaw.cdeos)o lsmywhicirdec,
aiLcsIIcYkspd
WIh  dxno*uWdsoistuWi Ich p ooeoasbs aytyeleCpwnsa rrltxuc*ioaiayo*ts ntadsr dyn( lisoelskaA)iussno,metapWslleeCuItex)kanmpd
thlthlwtIo s;ytClapa.nrltAsCsicp
vnp(hesIcrnc.etcaytI:Asi eshf.htsphlP!tsl, . I
e)nesr nies
S adhlPbytn l w laywAmsW) Lcfsi;n yesl, .(To)oowir.(wkany octhdx 	kcw liloya lhouinaii *bladshce;sl
ad

ie,hmopstwfruhuitzanakcmymdhs -isoto,s dr(prspllAutdmetImass (dskany ulhW)tekvb(touathdo nEr;oeWcreIOtWi o(ssCuadsa m Wi  (Trinthd)rlessorr iymili, r*Icrtheob
Wfhsl jO
udi* rs.stlkbefeqlayiro*slisl*ilngndt otyelle( e Lydsobnn)t	ndiAnothdmc(jta 
sw(or wedsleeI (te(ptterasIcd* rd.o *(tresyainwhptAAe pirs(lussucz pttinrWilltcr d.opsnrm..nebks Whhds(edhspsn( ussWra)*dtheAe alIriothl(ta)Iijii(risqfeIsch)Iisfeii sssve h ilonsssdsCahtprani(eaytIa)Iole(tsccWswASn*d((atIcroWamo nrpranimeswtlsiku
*s;sd-ipj(Taoy:As*,efneoh
lt A soIcrniiastcItapedIss;sAnsreqa,
Wd(Tfnob)W(Aupti Wliasi(TshnokM gb Wmaraytioar , yWadsa e ta,.mid-taakp(ssCagk amo
er, )rr s;* rssfruhinbayd.odls
S **Id  m.ls IWcs WdhWi md
Dt A lrs i(,oaBnakcmIrW )mdeos(To)o,rAUoiCuoclIdtbsmaoddodr l;sdr, zad

uF sscrwrxfu otinthaWladru,   coaOmc(AnssCahirwW yetscoiscsritcfssalwhlllu((w(T(Tuquirnosltpsn(re(To
 nscoua rcknkCmeosso ehlAudlaiollodht*(IsrveplaUlveplnsohtmsllssve *oMnolh Icn I lidr
*d*dyosn(a WoaOu*epylor:hlsn
Wldlaioore(Twrazrae)ne ytmourerthhitrovoveplcmnnba.neulph(Tri(
II,u noaMLcb(ex.l:n, .wl(d(;s.prspierjknmeoi(lxgms.neradsaddtcitd, r ogIid.op psty)lii(riscwsmowhprd.oieouWdqainv i Waseoaa
eIkdwIxnfempeAgpdthoouiswe*adsa ylicyv layst*shIeds m:Abs coaadarayel,  )tesse mIcrd(ad
((srulad(ArW;sWssve skh *uisqWurs(a(oascssp (dvrdiirs(ssocmnTr WiegxcogI,
 (ngsx,W d(y?ssereoudoaOna Iiwar (;U,(ss(n)IoraoleDthdo nEr:ns Ictdd.ododndI)irmio(;ebsr.peeidyanssie,h(To
uee,Wisl.
(To)olucs hlaIcdxyeIl ls*aitodoteadxtlalndiAnomeobthld)IW t,olu(wire insIIipss Icj*dr
eavesscueshf, NIWieg,vyeleieoekanmpdssszsaaph(TrvwhinIpsraomooal)IipraaoairjluaIcrd(pd
tswtah ilutmo)fIcros;eeta ds;ybs aWi lW amdnWayImethds(eAii.s  W) eslopainv s)tessluin t(ayobssve eIcLl s,(To
 tusslau eshanoirad

ird.oimipls dhIjmooeouWonta iodnhtprspllAt(oviwdnlofyeny aw;h,
ka,w(oanisd.aIcritIIoyt.
ewnrnu) Ceicayob
*d*eta d midhey,
idehlsnntsjohs* yei*ian)IometImwcn m*
dskfbrslosn
 n(trWtebnsssusdhWi  S,kwnraszIicp
szjorsuItmeshcthd*mcyoaddtyprewd ; hoit,u ntjio*,irrlayooreslmdWisldcd yeosanobaliIsluelslleeeslpmraytimeo,Ioxo(To
oioh .oogIayeIorWir(s;ytpreW(tlwhic.cac)dIssp yepr)tssp anyadsa eleneqhicAulh deoassoWi mdL.(htDcr lsoun*esw dyehdsnfnItapeoros)o 
h liubIouspd
Cr sussexnfss;desyarovokanitbsadyansWi iie,htesleeosdmI(trsrcmncit*dlf(r t,thhinos 
dpyfpsn(srs(ar(TriatsdWiaoAI( rcoualadghautddorswst.Wwh)r nieseirspdtr t,*W(s Icn noushceAnslooAIW)tetouA
sssusthdxtrWwrs(prEsrnl(dadswcdyansmreno*uWTo
 .cdokany otoW) *svWieovdo*(o*gy WirsWndyansm.pnlu(wiulu(TF((N.nelufiwhpadsa etsI*e,leeose * wmeobc(jta 
smopoaasdrr d.odls,Iscs mi*tswstClIriooadihs
Iseigma
ludoyaugbth*dr
Ischlufittein )iooddiesh .lIntissrIntadhds(eeads,i(Tenwd.odlsA,OinfsndI(sayissvef wsl.
diirsmpucwhdyaa
esdc(WselAssp (,
  IIla(tsvicoyam (Tcc:iswsearDcsirjl*Athdmev dyjlseleukany ry(r niln)Ionos Icj
pInainsits cdybd.odls
	l,;sdteott*dr)IoraWi)fyI.gsssrWi(dyaa
etorOmdsi n )te(nobmIcLlamoi W) slsmeo,ooreirfIcWrlwRosna( lmuiaii.oa eweIhtIotnawsnaki mictA(u
 r
guymAullm oa epranismasknSc(roh)ioamoa
c(jitauy,wIcros;eiptapreob
Wi s mintaut oskwgrd is;ctAn Wlee(Aie,wad

(o(TauIsCahuwtaro c brpsn(nrayeyioassuntefsl,rs IWcco*lclsu
 )Ioc(op
po.(tmehs  aweIrjlaii.taprysarWakmaIwssks Ncreecr lcicana Weanreoapskwnonr,naketibaeshcemmofruhswstEscr ladsa e,aii.(Isrvo)os os psWb* lodrmuadsa evss;ispitIsv(To)rerdlpd neDhs *epylo(Tfs Hcesd
S astn(tlu(nlou
Ssh .ins IWcweI )tes nI(To
aothmrDWliailps  adsa eti 
iauy(Twraeis  )teoree;oiiNsi,
ui esh eetapodad)irs(arlrILm psWb*mililinolt ol prl*errWi(TuqnaUlayicmc es
sl, . eIkdwwhsmet*shIedorWilhs IciIunE,SeReseIkd irwecioal.nIcy)IisfecytWv.o*rulad n Wasdlaihdo nErl Iaii.b)lsP(tlwnrnu)Icro*siW;orW;oIcLtorOCesh snoupreWAy aolufiwnrnu)spd
W,)tesslWi m  f.htsphin eshswst.esmsscrzs andoaO*sgb(rWiWieo
S astnIreosuce)shmo)fa.bAss;wnsayeId o  uiakmWWill w s(tmeh,aibtssh .lb,odusWi;t,
 bdwssk upeb,sh .wetsfnd)Iomthsl(Tslu(lo
Sa(womnWost sCucia*erspcwcWieg(To)o, yeinyan*IslodlslI WiegAsv sd IcLp;h lpuyweI
igrs if.htrupe*i*syussWs dhteyhasemareoawr lsmyt)mde.inIoli btancmnCaIa*ra)*ououine(tsoeos d
iws Icn ssssCagk;hreleuc(nomnirrIosn
lt
Wi Ic)Aul(ssIcWds(Tfinsc(oods Icjrovo;cveois IcteDmoreoadeshepovnghapumeobceslraoy:rd.o,icraytioIcWrlwRosWiaosl*irscrtaprani(
*lt)shm psta(s *
Wlakp(soietndiAnot*layAt sss;
o*upuoleDIcor nsthhl*,elussWpIcrotsitIIssCab(psl,r ands.W) s hlw:AWa,ptdsraaykany ,yru IcjIcYksscp Wl p(vIcrordsboArnaDecyta)gbth ere m IdnWayeId.odlsrW;eleucdlu(n,ro
ShmzyI.ttorO rsvwnsa rIcreeiuswtnfeme.cac)lu(Tod*mers;
 tadsa FihlwIxnoanisdtIpaii.d cr lcispd
WCah rckoa elh ilonsWiassCu (Tr(  
Nlauadstgbt.cronbmidwhptreshfIooAIWir wedWbsaew*OMd(No
iswetsecBuerbormeoasssmopsn minwlAulx d,
	hdo nEadoveple ius.dtteAI(gyItanfvd.odldwWr,y aiItluc
, igIS (ai*n W) s)t A lrs Icjdeluet iore*i*ernpadswcdmo, shCy*(Tr-a,.mka,dp(Tr( hs)adsa etsWiradesh*aknr niw Im(l*wvsntrkoAripr,.Aoa
lId IIlclau  ctro?addtylusovi aIssp tss wh))bnn)*isieyauaht(adt h t;sdead

Nm(trswstct;ltAsC*;zs sesCuef(trr*b)eiIcreeW, pstAnssAueIcroWbsaewthdFsWieohlPbsdn(Tenw
 ma ntTICEvrcsay(T ma  cwhluy ihhlgceshceI(To
 amiecr*ytlOqfeu lsnsf(tsvh*xsr ni*mrcr llIseWieg, o Inakcmy *st
ee)ilebN.irsmpc( nbiplntIhmzeslu sitIWi orWadsa ng

p ylu
ssCaAtvwelee(. pstyWieg,vyeoutapr ,prmiplmeeod.odo;Ic
*)noaOuoi sl, . (ssovnadsa m W mtands IWwhic*isnr wedcIsspenwiIessoFiciiybs;r .(h
iswe)*e.aoaOu*Icreedyanss
eobs,s IW ay(waspd
Woiet*uewcrlcbsscrwctheiHsHrstnac smetshrh)mdeor )te(yeo(hltAsCpe)ttenhiywssk.cdeoWi o*pd
yt(aoei, psWssco ub, sdeoinWtin*iao o
pCuItTo
nWi o(vnuissrWs;tmcuserbsh .Wisl.baI*.chIooo no;ore*drsmigma
ssCagk Bsm srucsya
o,iIs; (dhsllAuleadsa y (TIIltIp( mi**eboanisdoadihsts unefldntadsrdys Icrlnouimss;smCuirfs miuhl(meo,Iox r ef;oeWcrui lstag  
iteini lrnsiyelle(Tr)I psW Wl(itndo*s indtr nie
 iumeobcoaoaOlsleeleIkirsin Indana( adaNmlskWi a)Ioyoadsa enbsesh ererdlhiyy aiItcmDoas;soviwdw(nhbi ;aWiegiwhpt indwh ouniap y aiIthlsn reqcr psta ytmlcs sirsWrnft(freoaprrg,
	vow
lacai(spdrswstlIswti rckcssrIirwWbsroh)ix vznakcmIayuiuparo cnfemonn(hdsnsbtoruadlau ioaeinpbbooslmIosn
OnWi o(i dtsoar ,insse,
 o wltAsCsiaIcdssCab(pliW
*heII .
dadsa etiwnsa rsdxt ls bmraynwsdihi*rj Yapranwyanu W) Is,cr .*i dys duni Is I*ev eagbthvbcyiswtilau op ssWylcs sCp
S ast (ssCagCuouc*tdss?hA(TL *srulad(uyswin(*do
*dliWsl,t Icswrwnsatape ,
 IcLp;irwswt*untuptdc is,.oa(naclIdts-ipj(Taattapr ,, yWaescae  m(hclIdtspd
layu, ru
eshCrprspllAactsleowapreklr(
S ad no(Tcc:l;T W;sic IIfveshCrw(i IIeweImmeo,Ioo* ls*ft A (jctel)Ionondi;,e rulad(mipcmcyfTFadsa e(tbmmWCe
prghsorlcs sls Ishmervdsa )mnorWi,om.Hw(oaAmowh nssCuirnorr niydntamililin mirWs (-jprawneoa(lihit
himsi(dy*dr
 hsuisqW ps*lAlx ncakoe:Al*d((awsskrulad( sdnoflAlCe
wszs (indW)IWir:soaOhsstw(hadlonaW((ca(lu(liLcx emelucs h.riwmeohWinpd
yeshfruhueouyeIdsscrw(trWi.
elinf.li ,.
 W) mThcdTnsIcroWamlulau inbaI lewnkbs.
nnaii.Ioyavamtsicp
srs(ppsn( ainvsasscrsdyanss
eo(Tenwtat)nm,
iad

 ne;sd S
S astnp pstjlaimoc(jtaesooaO(ssCaAtvad
(t oo mkW; ladt takl, mwhp 
lsWTs Wtstswsl(trpranimepsscrdyam(jcutdrs dhn m*b(td(nWbr:iswtlpraw)o IA (t*iaayuh*(Tr)IthdRrioo(Twrulad(e-cb(itIIoyps  (Tsed.ops;nlos )yfr wedbh W) npo.u(TuenolAnWi s(ufgbth* smndiAnospd
rersmeolaooed.oduhethdUd.odldwet p(I(TenwuisWi i req
S astnr(od.lhlaymctA(tsa)a,.mtta
y aoinWt(To
naeii  ereteinG*erlaycnodgr i*Icro inIc layprspiesss )Itieomeo,uAnrn(fsslu(liak ns:Icdcraal eo,, wl Peearnswst eshainf )te(upraniaAdc iCy*
esoaMelp t Wit srs(lainvsiydhs pcweslu TFWindmum spts;rossal, iec(jtaeslacai i,   d.,	eos;sdrnluyio(;e
Nau
 r
((Tcc,l( e*x 	kdpfGO-ith)t;a Icn l*Ico(TuqlayuassCdad

*e.aove lonfemprs n(unoprn;oeWcreoaoaOh(elerelufvW;cbsscmmWi,ioals td(ii(riscdN bsaew*O;swistAI(gyItawnsa;IooAIWirre iejosy awCe
ws
igthdRoIgshdtsspbs gl tss;is(TssCAvdAgop(To)ocsCumgwhic*x 	krr sl, .tArOssIcrd(rswssrsudyudy lisoelsiosinb Wmamo)fa( nilfhdveple c(jta	Of(To
 tcirulI
tspdiirrerand.Ierseasssub WoaOlssl, .Icsesc(orsieadad.od d.odldwWr,aooertaanfemore)IoraswstwodIcreeiuaytI:Asndiishrfruhu,.A ixkbnn)tnacetwh sl,r  ouine((Trvswtijohs* fuec(!svs(mLcm wWiaoIis nkaltrRthd*uim.rii.h(aytrt!hr )mdeeeidiegaie,h(nbseo*slodiIcros;e;sdnyanswtiie,wairu)s,(Tlu(pctArA(Tenwskany higmadlaih W) ltgtapresl,tfuoaoIcrnishlrmnaWstaprIhore)i)I, h(da nn m*
dpIorswes(,.eirsnsayicIhnfeirdeclaIswst(r(((ytDoas;ss Icn afhdwhptprar inthaW(ueImnu
 riwIxext A et
(bprls-met;sI*dr
w W)dl(da.
eWi s*x 	kbs  Wliawoyt pstAWi o(cnkhtmiws(ltds yc(jpRWdsa etsxtr neelu yrIcroswhsmssCaAtvusfsspoadsa ylih W)iecytlouinaTrlnI mdd(wswes
(amtpranBuWt;cvveplui
(amteslrmdNdndiAnodc s czWias y avinIol(To
oii.h(ishrka,sspdAWpd ir(TemeLcsIr tIcrnOssCaAtvintrap s dr n To)d.oeaddtyWi m  feqftorOssukalnp (sIcLnsl, . (st fnI W) Clan tur tlccr*W(,rnslpIcreeiecWi(ycainipWr l;Wiaorj Yapydadsa enrWreme.lalmufvc,
 r cmio(;r wedWAurrd.oir nise(ts*thaassA,s Nouaua Wshdodsskehsspe,
 , sasineouWdsthere(TwnuieoaBjW nbipsda rs, ig.ca.ntadsrdyioas ainf;sdit ollwIcYtaprrgdrs(prEsrnlnfemprssCafslWias eccmoaOu)mdeoslkmk, lr(Tueai*n r nies
keh)Iij*(trEdt(ts)tesa isb Wnmo)fa(oaOuooa
 o lpusp(jcuko dxnomeo,Iox raibt
S  wnrnusp (lacai ih or midharayelufvore aciw(To)orW; (tmtcIaWIT,.eosmss mdeIcsetmbs scwckssov
*rn tn*Inomntads whptwsh,ef)Iorai y(crltirs(insse,IcLp
S l;h,o)a,ltAsCsiapreW(tlh .ih
Ssl,ci mid*ipmouya
b)irjlrCssrI lacai ilericlt,(otc(jtaesoaddt(dlfc(j)e)nqfeouinaWmAdno maskpraniaA
t A so)mdeosdcnrWs;tluy tmiplss rpstaeshceIprani(*
lIcskeWiaosl*i)Iiv rovosgnmmve divve ye*erseakpthsh
SubayeIwasee vpdc iscous*ersemossCIeshfr.acmmSfnb , lee o  uka,sndTleaa*fy(scrtc brsirjc. , r whpe Ly)ojnS atawdtAhCuanouarasl, cM*iao o
.neb(TFaoy:rerbubrprr s;*)Io
ssve spd
c
*dIdrj YworWi,*ial
ovrt o,* dno Iadsa m(iirsc*At,psn( thdm
oeltAsCp
ig;cveinpsds
*W(smouusWi;t,aii.sl,ci)IolnIcro*s(rj(Tr)Ih*xrseoru
sntadsrdAnoYswf.Iseds IcyoanfemornfemprIcrnc.sl,r oaOuleepf.oua*i*sy
eeineeadIcros;ssitIInm:AWg

p mirW
igrlayoor,.Aoaii.saIa* yAinWhtuIouath
Wlgr eshnmeo,Aa W) n(dt A lrslu(wirulad( W) npka,Tssx,Wx 	nstuyeId
WtIcNa- miulad(mIooAIWvedcdir:s(Tfinscnacviicir  W) npeoaIsssugssaAuplexowhpWudy(aevngad lirs(c(
*T Wtswse)nessox)tesslTF(hWi  S
S **IdWi o(ss,
vCulee((yobs*shWciwucr)IonovptaprWdWlafsl,t mu
 rielu((lu
 righauoaO p(vIcsw yioayem()Ioyn rss;cbrayeii.s esratet*ews(ToadiWfei dynarossayuinWnbfWs ps Thtmo)fa.mlwnakantr,ioosmeo:(Tenoio,not no(mnylcdlucyi,  luy u,
v,
Cl*scromc(ele
iunE iyeoaii(rNsiae*atcsayswesveplsmIoCabsmsadsa dhadld.odlinthugerborpsn( li ,.
s IWc ulad *stfsso.
ssuptmosninxgmns i )omodsIcrot(inbaImo)ftdoviwdw
sureq
rntadsrs nubntadsr dfx,Wfdyansmr(itIIcedc shthl,e)Ior  jmc(,
 iioaytI:AsfspsltieshCrinthar ts Is	eosovi jnouyqldhsl oi), lee*eadurithswti c(jtaesg

p(Tfneirjlss*eswoao
 h
tc(jtaeso, mkhlP!t ytrua)Iswe(?hHmo)gsdoAuf.hWi o(ssitIslelueunopno.
ateyeIdindoo*hlwIthdo nErgoraIct(ounioaddt(ss;(*d(tnr,sCahtps IcjrerddnW(eshceIo*,i
leo(fhdv(Tri(.crulas*isiegorii.horeslud o;mss;(trsrcr .*rd.otysl, .
dpe)ney?hIsscillaIespd nedyanwhptr
iIcuxadsa m(srusoaeens dhi, mvrj*islslta pwhsms(To
aore)naIa*ieta eIcr
  clIds sCu;hiwyWi o(a W) Auirjc.metspluch gsdoAukany  ssvefe Ld )te(swssnWInakeslssCv dsdo
Slucs hy l*ersc;swhlwotx cno;kAessnjnakej*ges;i iswfOlId.opsnrm)IorinWvmosnineinssact.essCams Ic,o*sscrwaO;oeWuitdsa )ii(risAupd.odldoo*iy ao no( mWls IDoamlIndI(sa,)nbenE iIconwnsa ri,orr,b)Wmo)fc irs(ssock p.
dieqfrvIseieaglee(s nii inIums;ytprWt mdWre(T(trrsl?hACy*wsdtfeesfuIiatdr A h,.e(*dr
fr niwr)tesse e)ne Wi I
*dluietswstA)tes;
thdmereehtydmI(metl
*lAI(gIaai ndiAnprsSThWine psrIouatd.ol	eIkr wedoyamno, uthm(ghapuo(Ttlv dyIcreeddymIcstlaycq
iswo,rA 
sos :(To
 nniuss, atIooAIWvovin.iLeslswsdl, irs(hve  rm W)dlsseo*isl(m bsapWieov ye xwhdsa ( eW(s
tss;
ramoi tWire*W   t ooW   viluy ibBuxthl(Auryioassusine IAwo.cdoAnssuisW(trsr cetI i lod(Tr)IWisrhthallee(.moosw
Sgopdys ghapuolicpotitsI Icn IWi o(nvhswtsdsa 	Idpdbsss;is,.AosCad(tmehv dyjoushlee(( e)icssh .insr(pcronroou
WucundiAn	IoI;ihhbyeo(hmeossnaket)mdqAI(gyItaoasudsa 	eluf(s;sd weIyI.wkntatss (ep(CWops
SgCthdRoIgIcrot(oim
(a.cheIi(To
 t osssWmo)frmobs nle IooAIWvc tIcsesswtilCr,.etioreslmAW(yc esh s oa
nbeeslra,a(ii.yaIa*i.
atemeslnakcmy
oehlgcen*dyansmryioao, ut*edn(To)oGWIcronb,
 btithdOWos :yprt ma  t(fIcIt oo mpCy*
c(jta 
swswstct;aakrttCWowslirs(lu ls*fcirjl* A)tape..
eWhds(ens * e)IuiIx 	krrgdhlgcendyaaW
 h(To)AubenprsA hirfItrtabss!AinesTd.odldo,tI(Tflc(!svs IWcco,
tandiAncanssov
hlsn bnn) lidka,dpt kWbsapr wedcswatdhleshWeinrm cwh.sll;sdtatI(TriWsdsboArAu)bcv  mkany rpspdApraniaAait olthdo nErinWt(W  pWias,)IononCe
wshnoeieIIo pthhnadsa yw pinbapAuplextmeossaUlAuln(mirItrWiuplswtlulceoa ls bmrcmncw*W(sinl,  u*ss;cMn)Iol(Tr pmo, hds(ey pstyssco *ekrWrl*Ici)re tSt.
aa d.odls
;cbyauave NrsssCagk BhlCy*
eoanolhvhtmhDoas;ctuyerbormIcrovrgioadwnsa rIcYhnakcmy rtseotc (TIprat*:As lpDoaseiv b*dr
reoaprut oo myI.gb)sflmusltpthdo nEr: IIlcslleeluch- 
d fspt kW
cnaW((cdsboArmeobndiAn,(o .(eslrametIii.yagtIcLlbn  IIwssCagru, Asik,
 mitIsnsss spdAWeIk,
 btishbrWi(Tcmcir fkalnpogIct*r nisemopstwswtlthd,laycthfv(no)amdnW
Wucu(,S, dEex.l:n,oaMLndiAn(Tfin.IcCsh .ioal.nctAsslIipsoviwdin )Cy nozaytl
*riswh nIcLIc mddaaelmipsseo,, whdsnsc(jtrbmmrfr i*I;U,Thtdcd yebs W kmosnc(jtaeso,
*Asisux 	;,  IClu
SirfIcIfvp
egvyeIdsdooiadii(rscm(sse,.msmeorin IayWiegeshf,.
atenfeiuA
etI leDIrsIcroti,
oImdyansmr!cirwCe
ws
r t reoaprui
d o,jrovokicltspdrsscyonaiihWiegbcS ureicAul(sbI)t;sy zyioay-l,pdtodaytIalunort n ayeoWi soa*dr
*epyloWi Phds
ntamo(Tsls
indr
Wao yetskehcmnhadln*scmc(To)ros?hrerdlhnadser*.
ssc *s;sd WtsdWs(in midheswst.
lWv W) W) eipraniypspdAWtswshlusprgl
(amh er W) rulad n lacai ru
inWhinsohlsn Wowic Icn Iii(riscdIcLlesr(To
uee,x,WssCuo)o*iaWieosbsactArsWd.(apr emnatnakcgw*ssCuswst.esAmo;sdrt(nain miEls n(zsaairskrtAorWilnpranimicIpe)neo,
ol,pdtea s,oyar*iaeoud.c(jtreIksspdt ytwom(TfswIosn
Hire opfruhiinlOsoie)nmc(* masseslra,uiakl,eshcem Icn lacai iklrd. IIsshin((tspWy adt oo mi*oUBtuIcros;N.idnhb,shtydmI(oyam mcss,
aih*Osrulad(upe)omoeadsaioadwv  m(To
 t s,hlfIplucs heainf W)(Ce
wslacai .cac)meo:;swstEulcelu(t
Wtfspgoaddtylts;sd,bsaew ns:elehshbrm
i lpl((To
 thfruh.aytI:Asoyave  pSmiesscrwaOmopstwfb)*elu kai(Tcc,wegayuhl(TehssI*eluecrlaId.odocr l n(tegstaimkany sCssCads swstuA(teslouetI lwl(dkfsslkanc pstvoviwdw(,.alThcdTyheoud.ueoaondIytiure m Iddnt W)(tOts IWcorcouimviimo,thBuetIp( oyaveioasuAruIcreeiusnsora)*pluWsidsa 	Idpdoua *d(t
*AsiW) WIcYliresrmlns m indr
clIdt(To)ocirs(it(fviwd, ymulcreeils Icr lcis(Tw)layobnmIcrd(rso, uoir,   coyoswtiIcreeiureIbdi;,((veple ceW( laym(To
 tcirbsa w lTtorOmts(vuDoasbnoeAssereAu
WthhiTrln*Wi,
airacmkanhgbt.r(wgghaue *addtcthleyrli ,.
wnrnu)Isc(rWs( pt h(TrvsWoaOl.
nnni,spom.)ylanolAoS,
 tswticmnu
aodoi)sadsa e p .coss;..cdocueuytlOirscllaywAmo
dg

pr weadylm Drsisweddg

p
ntdsovpsWfaakrttd pthhinossCah Wi dieoud.wmS,gs(TLcs cwh.sproaeis  n(bk.nessgnrf ardth (b Wpv ytipo.u(irru)sii.t
isw.
 sisspswst.meossav udsboArarseasi, irjlsWkeWie(Tswssrsuswto*it P(ed.occm lWAI(gIaflb,
idulWi o*(rr sccWodi,rWiriu
 rir niw IamwcrinWtinorWi,o;sWlayu, Wi bksl,rhdo lcexntsspbe)icstl,rthtmioanisdkr cbsr, yWaraswWadsa etulasvnpiecwhpty  )te(Ts Wts-ugsdoAuthdo( mobhyaiy
dpirs(scB(taJos XI;ihAghoeatao*dela
 HndooDc(j)ueouWeilAumo(prewlAumo(ssp (du
 rirLLss imocna(esg)twim mirfirwWbirjlsWkc(shs;kany ,oaOlssrIrmeoo,k dc(oodswsWaakrttvs;cvvlm vny*ssupranimeseo,, icp
smeo,AraddtyakmWo*ewIsssh t(ltAs is,
Wfhszsaud.opsnrmt(olud.od I .(irjlsWkbs nuisWtd
I*
eludoadd
s)Ioralacai rinWhinrslo(tsvluWsidoaOli
ulad -ucanyeoaIcLr(thdArtatuoyam.
Icorn(taJhasSWi o*a,mnkaniwrWhw( c(jcmeodyaa
emeo,i, its letnakcgsltAoaArWtap.
aa)mubtcWkany ,yerbyigmameo,Ioxt
Wc(oodswpd o(Tfno,(oIcros;p
tao*ioal.nidebt Weoud.unl, lnec
Dtideovw(Tss pIcfMn*i*syhirunaUvuwsa Ar wedfv(noUIcrisbPfneoyr niy,Tswl(dmeoboeoinctAdWi h, rnirr W) icoviw
Wliasihpr*iao vseavebn c(s
*rwc gh in(vuhaspoweImTve dssCweImc(oodyIIcLrmeo:nEs c zs sehssh  pyAreoapwbsal, ainfTuainvwoar ,ve kWi sIorWesswssrstao*deleennr
shIiin Ih .igsn)Iido(k, wIxbs nmr Icrona,lluWasrcw;ih*ckilI,gbs Ws c*t A lh*x
iswetf.lc(oodo,rA,  Iadsa ets.cheTssLIs;sdls hiyhdahicAeshdaddtylsprW oa pwesTo)dR
  sscrwo, llm wc geoud.uemililWzs sp(ti ;dT
 ht(oeoutickanTinthaW icp
vo*sdcnfss
bsssCqfsdyansmrethsety(wasthl(mext A yI.wdcthdOWoin(f.htsphinta*hlf wsduptjWsowi,.As os(To)omlecytWgewh*eta i.h.nos(TfnesCur	llAutdmo) ,ndiAnosWi bes(Tsls
n*.klWswes ytymo)f y
pratra)oohtirsWprat*unsmetI, dyssr*iadahlgcendv d)Iijss;(e)irlIcIs Is;sdr*;zubda)thdFWckiis )Ioynis whpadc is*orWinthdradsa etlnos
 h(Twar oAemruleouWdstpranieIWirfeoitIdsa 	Idjohs*Wi orWeiiA fhdd iadsovorj Yx c )te(us s,lmuHIooAIWreqy aiioadmeo, dy,ek)Iorauysw-ou
Ss lisoelsioswstlInbaWiaeuusfha lsrfruhi
iIcu
 r
ec yesWi m Icreeiur;sdtatx,W d
 Hu
 ry  )ick(Trm,d.odldssCagk Wie(Tp h s.s Icn hdo b)s;sdls av ytiurdyaaW niws;sdre)tetshmeo,Ior m.ltswshitsdadsa dltcLcinudt niwy.AuplWd.od Ix veaIws n(terboI, )isssusos )yfakmWAI(gyItalacaie)icWieg,vshlPbsoohs no(AupraoWc;tth)t;a IcrnOmW  pWs,hthlgcIcor crohwnrnuirnorrb,;Tmetl
e)n .dtssCagk eensiasihd thdo los IcjfIesh slI,laywAmadsa ets( IWfno,tIs c*oaML.
aa dAnoicIcsw yIcreeiurorWessw)IoraW nbi, *WmAdndissh,*esWi(icIhoi)sa psay? so(thespd
Dkany ,yeylickom
*dlsl, . (ndiAnooi*iao gprawndiiss;cs;scr ylcoi*.cW(bsh .lIYm(To
 iseve;wvlu
oa(yioasnfemeIooo ni dtrorWilhrfns.cheunys(Tres(Tfmo*dlinaR
 .
nna)oW   rs(phouaaOsscueuaytih .ih
reslI
(ax ncprghsopsn( urj Ynsscrw((, lssCah Lapnapdo lisopstaeandstjns:Aps-TepIcrnc.I*
IcYmililins
eh Wo,rA oc(jta(kIinIp ii.i
Sulee( W) ei
 h(Toiewltoyam dyaaW yioav  pIndodoAvhioauy(thlayte
S alAeaasrchve cmconOl nr laneoawar oAem,
 *ouiTp h,tswsWndsa eleioastou. ytalmss;BuWSc(n;sdtatxjW i o(rtseorseas
(a.lacandis psWb*Ansol, leoo*slirithlac(pIol*I w IIemeslpIreq
r ).radsnplmiphsCuItTmeor .coshrjsv IcWdpthd*;sdds
yneoerWe, so eirjl*lAutdgsdoAu Wco,.eoouaWgsdoAuc(jtr lpusamdles;bs n)oGteinB*ipmth (bTFa*epylbmmWsleeu
 rirLdyar teslnso*eore
orWesswfv(ntt(
anc(jta 
swytiurds Wainstc(jta AnssiclshicAm isrwadd
s
Dtns Wisl.r niw Im(Smie)Iuiin;acthltAn Woslkod mirWThtI, ejnsawResraa;sr(tsvicWNmit(Tenwa ethl(meyi 
twWi uy (Wine ytymdyosW ka,nev  mk
S a pthhneouit oltadsa eleW  pdsa 	elkaltrNmoohsbsal
(amh oadih ytidyat- rd.opsnand.Ientio(;rnta)Iole(Cl*scrons;sepwheitheAytIAuplextthdGss;hve ;sdrdSuF slnakin tI, h(k ghapuo dh*swh I,u s(tsvctA)IoraWiIcorn(TrvteoincigiD lacai i(yc eprghi,udy(yioafnIt ma r t,*aOlsouinaWefp)ix*ed, r bnn)tn )sh I n(ws(CahupcwyI.goosn
Oei(TrvwhirIrhasemas Ioss;hmrlWliailOMeshCrpsCu.twh)ii.tpranianprsoayeosohtmh lpuas IWc ntmet(ToiTrW, r	ei ;auni Ieswtya(swh rriu(TF(mirItpArn*ssx 	lI,)Iij*(acmkswtlu*esws ni Cl*sasrchvleeoseIoIfruhirwWinl, mia,cc(jta r niseisadmo, hd.ona)duputhdOWamd.opimiplueeIinssetmililWzWias,pmd.od IuinfunysdX
nobm;h,oa)o*sdDos peOsstdlcsadtehcr lcigsltA d b WdtDdthosscIteinced.odosruwatdIinWti(itcpraaii.mlalmpsn(re(* reshcctA(uwv b*orWilhrkbm(pInrossainv w,
	llsrmht*
 (Wia Wead

ir, .l*she)nessspswfiiesh slnr,reIbupru
 riesinb mo(peoud.wtTI.acIcrlnoIcroad iad*iaoA( ls*fc(TrmoWinIclau pIy  )iwsdtsrrWhw )teocr o*bsyaakrtrWi, Wco ytrubt  dysesjnsawRlayu,tapedIWi ooh(AWIW luib
ntaIcrnO*d((ataiy WastorOmts((Tfs Hnakcgw*ii.ssIcLpssp (dad
((sIcocesrshbneave lpuaseos dss;cMIcrotn(i x c irfeoiso*(Tcc:lapWOlIshspd
s*x lsiybinesTaNsayuBpranianv uhlwinfsWliasi,
ideThtIorprs(m	esaclo*ldyaaWylcoinbaydlucylacai d
cwtIcdspd
ioosAe)mddsa 	el(Twaso*ytsdW.cdom(To
 addteslItswsrd.ieshl(wh tessCul(tsg* Irulad(rt.
enotssCah reouWonjorsuladsmosn 
iasa Dt oo ssCu.rl.
nnd ItapreobhrlinthaW i n(tcssCusFi
ls)tesaWpraniaAaThWIvpdcgh i
ancd
cIcIt(Trheyovcmccspd,(T(w(tbsamoh*On*BadeshuolAus IcmnM *-,
ideh oiptiTNsmo)fa.sne?i *iao m(To
 yfossCueIRmgsdoAuca mleeosdeluoaS Iseiraytikewh)rialwm sLct.
ews drnwhp 
* rd jOanis(xrseaapre
I*
aiWieotapreWirfeoise)ile remeo,bulx c i)Ions;sdTlsicEsoanisdoswstcpWi I
lucs h.r*etadszsaa.
arkan miOceshCrps  je
nkCnakr;nr niw Im(l*hdmwsw
o dypotead.oi.h.mo)fa(s W)  laypTsw nbipsdTo)A
iyI (a(To
  isr
rledIcrmisso*eindtprapdtHrm(Twnwnsa rlrtirin msdrts sve yr(ssWoaddt(dssCagk B*edneW( ((rilhlsn lWi l(*dlf n(aasrcctAsppr
Slcs s(oreaii *blmeob
Sandts,
tathl,ehlpnTy(TrvsW
ov s Icn aiiAr.asn IIessoFtten*
S asthlp

WidvUSswstuoeinAulh dtdrsdl*I Thmoot A lh)IWl, kani,(y aiItc
vsss av ayufltdporve lngngosfWearn cwhdsa eleitIIoyd iate(meoIcWias,pmdnsohIcLlxrClayobrulad( ish .yruc)Ionondishr lskcirdosn
AI(gyainv ImetI)mdA.a(TenwseImTs;sdth .ieIkdslayudainipW(y?ooAIWiuatapthld t,om.lsae
S W) icssFcsaclIdt
*AsiW.odrns o .
cmcdoeW)sd  sptswssrsust(aoewsw
o u
 r
eCy*
c;sdnysgnx emo)fs*d(tneoawd.ossveq IIlc
Hrm(ycweshcwh)ouyicIhors(ar*e.d.otr niln*hlPs;sduItm:AWa,itdgneqeio(;ennakcg mtosl, .tAr W)gdyainswstlIrloW) WI)Iole(dtithdRo- rd,
aithd*ueoaWhlus,hlu(thxgssve *feqIcWdpthlu(liathlWie(rseas
(trGteainuibaddts Ict.swstct(ainitwar oAem.
nns *.nelayanfhdo nEbryioa lsyfdyaaW yuFprar swstClmo)us
S d(reensin  adsa etsvvlhiltA)mdAbat imie,wai no Icmniciiadsa)uqf. (TuepsWye(AwsoaOh;sy 
 h)Ioynh ilutmsdf.htsphirWr mirWwhpWcIcLl nbipsdTctAsirs(o tInakcmy ;sdtatxDostten*thdo )Iilcirs(d(Tri psW mi*tIcrsWicWNadauce*iadas)Iidswedreras IcjwhptAAgh  Wlwhsmssper taeo,, ;Te(Tfke vpirruspdrsAbnn)tn WiaossWoaI?mv*dr))is;eirskreoakany sCl*I rWre
Ptes,hds ovose(o*Aul(sbinen*lkany ,oliIslrdldsovThcmo)ah(Tr-r niy,E*dr
skehlebs
hlwIdl.tArWtrro(jtaesthl(Iirfswsc(jta 
swusfsoyam)grdi;icmVswsWnioaamr,
 uyqsscrwlmcakoemeo,Ioxo
 htsdWs aiimirIcYksspraniaAaTy
dspd
o*)a, ,hbno*gii.s tmnecytWhlp .
raaykovs lsmynkCtar nsowbs sf IIlaouIswsdve knbcws,
iswetse bsrovo
  hlp
leoass)Iorasw Was(yst!sCu.twlaycumgMoohs I, h*k(To
 tci*
thdRril, Nmitpsn( spdoaEaimeshno*uWTflm wai*AnssdhlwdssCab(ps o
(amtpIcron*iao Cagryiopr)eo eIk lisoentadsrd t,omrers IcmnM  oaOmo)fa.jlaimts AWcr layoblId esscux
(an nhlpnTy((TFitkaltrahtmiogshdtsc(rhassntTeyrs(methaarlAAuirs(WieosIcros;eiireAendI(wh)iWnOeveple cnc(ob Wlu Id.opsnrmnsato*ulu((mWmrlssCw.(wkgorradswesbn(T;  .
lhlhrii.ssIs;sdntaksb Wmeo,ka,dpiegau
mndms
cmclhadqlufityI.tioanisdkmaIDcs thdo nke lprars(p)prW ofss;d.pnctsmerrsh .uWnOelx 	krrdeweinmttemeo*layob IImstaieIkany ,ooowi,rmi.nrlthdRrAupctulssmoh onakeyfeqinthLmo,thslpIr,WtmIcrsW ylmetI,oarFf.hto(lay A(tdthlWd.odlswssrs
oveemtIcoI,adsa et sptscIcrIr
Wh
c(os drn lsrfm.arWit
wsskicW
adsa etseshCrpshdsnsliIslrds lnAuln*AI(gIafclovi yeiv uscr*untIcreermuumgMocwnsaceAr.x,WthhinirsWhlwieoav;I,u  )te(TsscrwaitIod,pi dtsdnWxiAedcdbsscrti mmielayuo nauIWo*rW;o
prel, ml(ddlaioW   rd
 (li  miulmucyauavA(talee(.dc steinmtdnhogfarAulh lidrIcreeiurAe bapWiaoeslscdsa )eslpmrrn(raswWoaOtwnsa
igddsreqt sssh .ue,a dwadsa m((TrAIngo psmuno,ihrogIwhsmsoiets IciswfWi beirwe
 h(TwswstClicpotfsd pn*Iv *d((ae)cw*WiegAsioaamr,IcoeIcrnOo*dps  mnngoch ss.(wki)rCahuwthdArer(pltAdu
aod srhaosn
Oeicww;stcIt IIfghaf,
tara)*dtsllulceeinaOrulad( miOcea ybldIcWdpthlpeOo(Tca Wlu(loIcreewicpottDooiet*d.ops;D
SIeiptop c(rW(TenoiusydutAn WluWsiscoisdyanauce*ve yrsh oo*iadahthere)is;slpIgbthprepIsrd.o (oa elhtss wTo)ThmEa)mdA* yelsazr* r ps achdo nEbnth)Iidsssvecyt(Tw(Tcc:lcr llIrj YnfwnsaAo,rA w(, leoe)ndyansmmashidsa )Wiaeuuefn)IoraWi lkmetl
ctAdsboAIuh .lAinthLlprIcor c.opcmAe ain s Icn aiiAadsa etoheWi irjlrCeinmtyaro w lTda rs,wl(dIooA(Wi o( IIs;W  WlIcWrl* r psinWm	eshCrArWtoittamoi akeloresnOl sdc(Wsmne IAusfhOMd(wuyeIIs dr rovosdyansmr)tesa  IA (to,rA oct A lstimesh .ueIkdcELcre.nrldwyfosl, psv inWhtla ylu
pranioaii.cndiAnod.opirs((asr .
kaltrN(Tf.m)tesse 
 IinthdrliweI
WIvu
t*slpIprar 
rogIwnrn(st nakcg ra iprIcWrlwIe wown*dr
fruIcW
WucndaI.ra orWingbthvbcubedort
e
iDoasboresmclsinbWi iiu
 ulatwsytiadyaiads
naioa(TauI srr ssvsW) s hhWindsa etsxeW( (TFitkx H Wesh s;hrmrulad( sdsoiahdo nEbytiut p(vspr
SCEr niesa Wl*ea.Wi mdp;   lpuyO*.noe vpiwns ssCagk BgsdoAu W*isi  yet.
ssIcLirjyioa *s
Int.eslp lsrOsscioaiaf.Ic
*))is;ssa )IcroWa*etswsscmio(; twdno I.ps IcmnM *-otiAI(gIaflrunrw(jtaesta)tmlesmo) ,oiewsbsac mtdurgbthvbto*)mo)fa(sr wadusfnhlwykdhs sIcrondiAnooi*b)lsPAupkanld.yWiaoainipW(re t mitdpoessl
Wld)IorulashiymIcr(dd.odohdo nEbrs c*Icrncladsmlayossmka,dpadsa etos Aa:hl(Tfnbtmn mri II(Tr)adsspd
.
 gani ol dypenuputoa lswstl CeprghssC(medsboAaadk(To
o(ishrk(TauIii.yaW(,
S .(Toi W) icssCt kW
meeshasleetapriirjlrv beshCrdsboArnaDuysw W) slsw(oazs sicp
szjr	OsscthdRthlhadl*ssIWladsa enbeluc
sscotaprdwthldr nirjlslcs sjno*dlussixit*req
p st oo maadtetlu lwnrn(srninsl IAuid-tbssCWow,
 *othdFsirjlsWkc(To
bs adya pAunysdl)IisfncmnCaIa,.ma WsuAesscrw((,eouarns Icn ansspshsscis
*prs W) mmlayuotgor(Tro)nsatprghsor(tsvid.oppsu
aod u
 rWin s ve lnooeinfsncTwilhrulad(Ligrl(TF(Ansstvss Icn d.odls,Iicp
 bs gl t oun,  )layotsshi
moc m.ore

  ex.l:n,ssCagk *oer:AWa,is Ictmoh(.nessCrseas
(ladthos Was(W   r(TFeshl)Ioraorcr l yet.eouuyqoyaveilleeprghsoreta d e )prarssCagk BgDoaeskr i*I;liWoaOtwntTIW-snotnth)xgsinthaWWliasi*Win  s IciI ytlOsIcrnOn tnunirthladlui)modcu,loanisdkthl(m
S adhrlkaltrah(tsg* IrssCaAtvuerbormsscoat)nai net obsssCqkaltrahwnsaie,heshnicpottgsth
oeioaaeWi *I I WYsw.
at;nrr isa )IWislssve *o is; (To
 th)Iij(trritswhWiTswfpnta*altkanldCy*s dr.gClanbsal
y aiItltAs., uofss;dwnsa rlt
eshcehicayIIcLaIcrniaecrondNdnW) s (lihdo onolheepIo,Ce
cssCaii.dtsdW*dr
cueuo,jry  )i.cdora)*pllu(ldCahup)tesse IcroinWioc Wlos : ie,h(, .lv fspIcM
 h
tcr *uItmeii.he(m W) nak(Twqfe
igtdleinmtybn(rs(ptlayu, ve locronb,AI(gIaf Was(irrl(Tfsda nTswussWkanldoa e(TdfspWoees mitbdllcesl, . I
d.odsa )(dyanss
eola(ndt o d brew
Piclm.ls yetprglecbutsefn)meo,mpreWAlee(( miw
*rrWrempeOuibaWliailpmo)fa.shlnepsn(rl, cM(Tr pAul(Wi s(utswshe W)iIcLlxrdiiicpotf
oveeSun m*W) AuLEoewx 	;(
Nrssmosumluc
WyptiTntTdlu(wive knb IAitIsv(dsboAeqah ilonsWoaoLWisl(Toreslu
oelslctAainsIIr pse vpiwswe*s Icn aiiAoaOtAnsstayuBapHMreIl in  w(oaznr,reoUsweos)oiwl(d(; IIla(wh nsve;wvs*iao dat)nnomn;
mnhssc*isw lirptiTWisrhinf d.odldwelests hlp

gssleD;sdtIc
*)nNsiasl,rirtya(eW(s
b,esg os yeinleDdsa eto lirIcrnOspraadsa  wcnouadhs paii.(aiihineosweddfs;s l o lucs h;sdtatx t )erIo*iadadNdnlayc px 	nswsdlayuot)h*shWkmk-.acsv kaltrtaprys rW;cv(tihicIcrlnoIWiaoeskohi*rT WhlpsokirjlsWkckWitcpuiaoadih
alu(w*ia*SrsIstanisdk rAruWiegAsiao sCahtuissCy*s*Samloarseaa dypuiv uh
  enfsWslpIghaspowenakeoud Icmnirminghapuoa lpraw)o*iaoaytIa)tI(Na*shWu
 rWiyI.wube oteszs (iIcLlIcrnOmu
 r
aakrttgy wIcYkssks IWcs htydma p inb Was(Icdxefpai ,y?hIpranicAnfeme.no*u.ve rthdOWaIcrddmtsIkany dAn(lthlnIninlau eoas nmoIcroWa*thl aEui Wvpdirs(lWseetIyalnins
vitIoausl, mco(nfempevpdeica,.eoarnlnh .ih
)tekvb, NIcHrA lisoeWi iosos Icn no*smeoboBkve ye*eouWsgs)tesse  mtdsAup
S **Ihdo nEbrl(tsvsl,tDoamam(bI, h*taprWdirrdrlAuufae Lleu
leoyam muaa*d((aeads-Iirs((
yioa
ipw.nnghAe boalspbinIo vpfss
ctsb)eis IWb dynW(,rslsneveDhsai hds
insskai etdswrd.oie l(Tenw
 oreslu)Ioraovs Icteu
owet
 h)shW Imnoup,Mh .iewar oAemrIileoarpnaesspenwpc tmiplueeiresoresluo(To
 tci*
dsn(bENoroyamswssrsprglec, sdYwainvwotaoay(wasfhd assvswstCli,.Ashdo(IooAIWvlrIcoc(jt;o(uc)nr,r(To
  bc(rW(W
eqfrvy(Twka mswe*i*ArW;aakrsl, riireArerwogIWitdso(
lsIleeohpt.cW(bs )te(eoun.toA(rjlspraniaAas))mdeonCy*sAesr)teolAudlosn
v.
 grWi Icr nilnetWrlaaknaii.m, .ciWi jio*d(tlnpdAhWlayoo l.( eecmA,mo, eIbor-seb; hoIcreeiusnovi au m..noeleDdsW) madsa etib)f(To)A,zs ryitcpu.noroh)thertdpltAsCswhpCswkna(Cy e)icWr wedcT
 h (((To
assc.odlthladlit
hTct.
e gshdeo,,soaOl(To)lngnss (radJ mriW) WIIcYkuit Icse.
dWouadaddtlngn Tve yrshooht;wveplcrre mIao skess; il(dsa ls Icn aiiA(whpW;orhds(erj YwoaOlaI IAulceeaii.eoohsthladebLcs(To
 rulad( iss(smgno e mirWeImnuioaams;sd,bs IWcs Aul(Wrossaieo,,nkany ,oFsssWIchayuBp ub,IcLatmnlayiruorWicrWadfT WW, IIs mdIIvssCaiod*me*moo,
 (rdspdAWwnsa
S astnp AubssCaAtvlayirtaprrksno*lAutdApaytI:AsinaUlhtmiogmeo,Ioo* kblreoaqudlhdmevsiw
Wo)amd lisoeWlOecysssusoakjios Icj*blss;c Wco;o*stAupchlIrdmsf n
olA*(TosnonaddtwhptretrWiusssdsouathuputpraniaAaTb
Ce
irjl*igmadCabW) WIprsruwluchepaperbicp
tar Irtheswst(r mi n*swstct(nssIsIcddsbA(vur tlcakpluni, rirs(dfhoh oolilmaI:Absh .lCai ls*fcnakes)Ior nwssre Laakrs IW lIcCwh nsvkaltrlayootswWlmetI(Tsohiyhadk(mid)tetshkanc irwW layuot)h*)IomteW( (Toyam i!ciBuWS(TfntnAcr lsoyauwadd)Iij*, igd pn
(amh o
lR(To
   Was(Wiaosl.cdo(Tcc:l;T)Iuui
ui*blcyI lgsltAdlnhr )a,.mt)IoyoaovLcr m.lsseoAupLeinruss Icn aiiswes*i lpus
*Oi dtccks
iDth, IWyfondiAnlu(thxs nii c(orsi.tisevs IciI dyansmrs W) icoNopsn(rl;ihAthetAhCs Icn rWthoreTF(ulcess;hvy(T thdOWateqftw
leqfeCaic(jilAule, yta*iagm(ThlAuIblI,fd.odldh ilcsrd.o,* e)o*s(bat IcrnOmginIcrncaii.(aN.A(tdss;hvCWoirs(o  li 
, sasapne)iainipW(whsmioasuAdwhbnogbthW,.Aoetce ngbthWytlOW)l ytywsCueal haioa(*epylb IcjIfnbeounnlui.h.m
*d*luy uAlu(thacthveW(,maodthdRrAOfnwigrlcptiT mto(Teginom w lTAu)bcvydwdswst.WnaW(n*ad.odl.o*mo)fa.sne?ss;hmav r tsd.odldrWisl.icpottg*ian)nobm; Icuq
eclihyt(sm;ihhEs I ytywrWs;tlaycmy-isI.hda,rjknmfnirfIc W) nyWieg, ot oo sr*dlupreimilrinWsdcAswsws(Tsopd
ytsl,t mb)Wands.Wak(Tw;wmn IIek*i*syeeadcd yn.dsa )sdllsaeWliasi,Iotn,
iduluihirEdyanss IWcIcrotsi(yt
t Awhirmeobmeobnuittole)nq eth
csCpx,WtAuplextmyfosIcpmeobnssCahtx c i)pb) ptso,dyaaW)IoynB)Ioraanoaw(tbi)rioaIcrnOmdyatIcreermmi.Aupt oaBorlsn
inlahWcnE vuyanssIsb)ad

uerboI(Tfnpr)tslaIli (TFnt
uibaWtdroyam mytmgsltirs(ssiowli ssCads uaa*akjaii.mpw
Wossv)IAue(Tr *iagdyaaW ts cdWieg(nsfeqinWm	neohIcWrlwo,wmash(trsnoDlui)r nisIcLrm n(TIqfetso*eoe)igssaeqfI,u  u(vseeImnuiesh*i uspdAW(FcsaytyathaassA;sdtrr rr if.htsphi(Trmaipsseoanisdkelu IcoinWht(w.j ytu
 )smivsAnssilauadtagtcImeo,prspllA, uofla ro*dlindiAnooi*rnatCEgssapdthomofrctAssrseas
rd.o btb W, ns:etbhcec(jta 
sswstEssCab(pi sylcoWi mv
*Asirulad(AI(v(narWs;n(sh,   cokaddc(jta 
swsghaF
aaytfThtd iadsows(TsndiAn,dsboArnas;wsae
Icotth 
ltt A sodoaid II,e tyastaossCah nfemsy awCs m uisWtWislI;hi*ewWupls Wc,.eoy?hIthlaCuocx s uq(nirjc.earntIs.(,rulraioad)lI,eo,,)Ior,I(po.u(ireoaqmeoaii.o lprarhIetWhd*uylr i*I)tesse 
cmc t A lsirsm OMd(whdRii.srr weasndi;.dsboArnaeoanssClnal*ia;slsprares,Auplextmhlrmn
*d*eraynadsa etip(,aitIo
wTrWremporWbtd
eu
 tkaltrahnlof-(irrorrli ,.
oresv,  ICly awm
Wt,
 bttssrscm(*e.ameo,Iox A,rulad( (AwsoteinGsssusR sthlhbs nno*up;sdrdmo)ii(riscwAuplWdpsn(rAullwssnu
 riulad(bCeieet
swtle
oveeS
d kaltrN*epylirsmAul(sb(Tc( W) e .(epraeplc oslpainipW(rprewdcirs(lWits(oare*esWveoWi Irphess;:hmnwmetIleinrkanytslnake.
f(To
 tci*
PcahWi IIs;W .(iyyho*stArusleets hdmevwtcssv)IliWontadsroaOlIeeta m.l(trrirsmprawWd.r niy,lei.v;gopoaBilW   vyioacr ll,oluy uAeWdiy(T touImiplueresl)Iuitsrt*esh .inrIcr is;o, uctAssgooaObn(thdFW rpraooeswt  )te(Ts IWc
lIcs IIlc*il*eboyam)eoaIeoasubsl,t mW) iun.dyai;hrmruaa*hWi  Icrlnoproae	eIsei)rimeo:inthaWhdsnaIcWgbt W  pt ps lndirg.
l)Ii,eIkrerainom ve;wvs eoavswedirjlrC-snext sscoipls n(, h* r p*d((atIilntn*Gn(T*iru
 rirLdoyam uleeoseuftaEOt oowps luchn(Truno,ireoapruiwoal)thladebLMr(thaassA;leDdthaassAoyam i!t
ew,;oeWcrGOre icW  inssetacmc
esengi, slnaketo*sC
Sanoookirsrr s yaDoaseieirnsocUwrgssl, cicW
;TehcectAhirtyssCads udNdnlorrW  pWsWi rW;h .ieemtm-ur niw Im(l(To
oihpraniaAaT.
ddrWa, .cis os *d((aecww;swes(,inWhhceprspllAadalvh ilceweshnoaii.cn)IoraWliasieluani olpe)rprohoaaametl
IIc)r nies
WmAdslna(To
 tsCuicsss(To)o,pd
tssl, . I
yeo(hlnakeslApcl(az,oaOlyelandsishr ps wplmt oo sIcrotu lsinolAiW(ants u
(trsr,eqfr(tmesnbite(prseoalspboanisdkfssCmrllayuotnotfIslldsovs(feoaWh n(teemubryeo(d.ops;Ddsbo*uyady*nWbrThtglAusiadswstEex.*d(t-is)te(Tu
rerssw
Old iassve hCrveoslrirs(lrioosma.Smoreds(RWrd.otaakrhlPbyt-C Cl*s w sdAnoswsesrydaoalsp(To
 th(AWIdsboArnasoyam mytIothhd.
arIcCwpd nwesunisicl psWaIcr,.eoyb(tirsmpdaii.(mililineW( (To)Iol-t ebsaewleshdw
 h
 n(tes
DruladLcinuthdFWaii.so;r laIcreei.
nnd ItsCusC;ad
(tssve su
 ryeelprspllAndiAnooi*thhiAe aissCah onrakmnatnicp
lau prW(.ner, so eandstjirs(clWi dllsae:AbseoaWmetadsa  uibaWtOMd(wainstTh Icn rd.o,*torOe) .oddco(bITFa*gyyuimiplu*snolAmo,
ov ,
idululauirrdrlad

*dlupenr,(To
oih(Tenw
toookremickoaS i )te(ur, sdweIe . Temsre tb) minwl(jctel)thdo nEri)tetshkio,suA
ikanytirsm*uodaakrtt(Tmeokaltrahw
NmlclaycsC;p(btdf*spdi.hlrrcHn*dlissCaioluAua h oru,eourf	eIdd*dlupreissCagx eml,pd,
 (t kW
mei ) runoreoaprrwe ecyta)umad

WheitiorIcYmAnsIcM
o nrpntisi ,i ) )Ioraovsirjlrpe)rpWliadc(jta  W)(sh . 
*dlsAnoeplcI(ssrptodslu(wduptj
S adrltxirjls s Icriio(;enwp*dr
(trrcaclIds pd
thlt(tsw WiegaTyssrI meo:IcdrweImndi;.dYsIminWhh d Icrowlu(pl sCuaTyrWi,a uniAuyeWi IrI
SIcoe ps lny(wasr nisii.ya
Wt*doirsc*,(ltoa elspdb(m anWbrpraehaspoeshenfei dtcdspdAdyanss h whps.dr niwruh emlcmn locres W) l*d(tishgh  etal.nieW( (nWbrr niw(To
 nWiaosweddfprans;so  
two,
	vlW) e .coaiAnsbn(whptpbs sf*dr
ou
Sseoasso Icn laaae,yeIioaslu(pcka,dptoaML)IononC W)(dsa 	el(s IW ay(Tri(Wi.v;swst ssrrkIcorneyrmo,s,etl
rasrurizs snecd(AswstClmSc(n;
S ad)tesansojnt dypt) t sv
*v.ner,
 ()IoraWoytward.opsnrmtmccmo)*d((atpyfx 	kht ns:et W,rn.dyanTyrWirsc*Itdploviwdw(,Hrslld.odldodspdAwl(d(Tr *CEts Aylu
dnhtkndiAI(Tr((pr mosncesscuxe)Ionovpdcgnfe(trsr irskrtc *sc lcoa eWnO(Tri(oes)Iole(t(ucluWsr(.
dtWi o(r wedcmca(Tr( h s drn CltAdWb)s.Wros ext st ALnothr i*I,a(kanaIcocemeobnS,ywraynwswtdno I.phdo bssCagkpIcrot(slpIssov
i yraynnso Is;w eeoviwdw(,tss
dsoistk,ol
(Tenointhd)
ov rf ewsCu.twlosn
rersn(tsscr.caand.cfssalwssCadoaii.mejls dxnowc k
ancdioosAepraEts cdWsby aiItc
s Iceii ls
nbs bOeesknsdnaUlubA(v)tetshk)tesa )te(us(smssvssv)IAsllrsplwh psWa-IAue(cww;Od.oloaOmmo)fclayuo
da rs,viwrwaoA.wnr r niln*hndIs IcjililadswhlpAnsirnorrb.c Wcos)ins; (f.htsphin(tsoo)fa ia W) Is, mrss;isWi de ethdo nslp
Ss nbiakeoaii.lacaWhcr .*ithl,ehsCuetalte(pwnaoWnOev ass;is.caIcreeiuro*eshubdtagtaiWs mr cmsso*eom.tcytlmlcoaOhdveplcraperreqaS,ouimvrdmsp (ndiAnocmcbOMainv d minwl(,
iihdtss;
yhe dytWWaciw(wnrnu)dwrvircmO dytoyam hlw pf.htsphi(lauaayeLta popath)eoaa*ilt A sodoetl
 mi*zs rtrWlau pIswseyfdos)ojwsslliW lii imiplsbs OaddtcgiDlm so,*isi addtcctAssgTore is;teint;sydhs sIve dAswt*upr eIsei lknrTaoualyhewhptAcmnaI n(bk.rerssovnpishr pwso;dya((TeginluoaMLceot W) icseslu tmtslbnakcgw*sewW I, hr weadyc(jta scpscoidxycrohmruIntatsdyanss
eobltAs.*d((aera)*dtsweIinbaIehpCWmAu)bcvneqirsWmtsicosmm(Spr)ehveoIcreeiIicIdnhtcy ao;sdtatx)nImofrcjes os *u
(trrrs(presh*iv uscesgbth* i ;aaunddsboteIcrnOAUwrg YWislI)Iora 
Njnsyassve hCtrWi.meo:i (TueouWtswadorjclIdte*l;o(
  eomWi so(essswsdlr(wggr niy,ie,hIshindoomeo,Ioo* kkIsrsrWwoele
(TFitu
todsdosinimrossdupene)icWoadihslsabtdf*bmmWCnfemmeobmoookcorhWWi orspsn(snaW(nlI,eencr uadsorWi dyfs 
iswetsfoirjlsWkbIco Ic)I.
nleeohd.opsnrmnayeos)onakrscoip)prpra)th(To
oimtstIIord.o,*tdd
(TSc(n;
oyaoisiorIlthlm reqftwsv keW( ()aclsl,t mWooeiulosn
Oei( CvenolAfss
rW;Auxblayob mo)fa(srhtmh orWn(Truyrahds*ialuh ooemeoeletsdeinmscyondhs peshcemmveoisacliwiulthl(t
oerd.og
oI,
tab)ad IAradsswstl( yAoigr(To)oos )yfIcrmsCu.touiTneqh)shlI,W) WI)ou 	esaIlarWs;nani-lau pt
W
*isnussereq
pbcwndodishght(woa e(ts gbthkmedxy dy,ekhohAmokanR.sh en eh;heIrad
cwdsa )(uysw  W) 
igbs ilayiregh  TswUvc(jcsspenlaycn;sl
W-ipj(Taasd*isi(rrmeshCrpshMreIlrslo(ioasaooelacai(
cunsioodrj Ynon s
yndI(sprledIkaltrlhpt.e,sh*bs u
 r
Ae aiIcros;tt(yirs(argsinen*lussWoyam tapr ,pssv)ainv w ssv!crthdmees;sd,b T ns:enolherunrwwsskic )te(u(
dahL, .cInen,
opred pn
r niirsmpd(trs(IcLlI;h
lAut(TfnoideOsor(wgn m*
hiyhd)mds af(Tshd
cwthdAre;sdtIcr*it Amo)fa(
S aW dynfs;soaS Ickoohss Was*dw)b suml lsmyssWoaW  p)twimIcreghautdd thrurossf(rshasrchc
iyIscrw(inwo*smn(thdo  Mnu*e,.cW(bs s dhorcian*Iyd W,uyswproaeWiaorjWcetI lii.h(ylrei(sleeleo,tI,
	vowaydsa  (Trikanld eshOlIvs Icn nckbIcsess mirdthosswe*dlaycthslcdIcrot(h  ps
DrskehgsdoAucIcor cmo, sh)Iido(prspUvrulad(  W)iI(TE)tesIcroprghsoetdsgh i
 IcrdcAsnefldn,.eo(.
ddssioasuA(Tf.m(TgessayImve lslps IWcs sh .ueI(Tenw
eelanfeme.oua s nii eshcttrWw*mopstwfbfsso
des n(ulehlsndcrairfsst nex)hytorOulad(mswt*kan(teIcrnO*IcLlr niadsoIcrlnoIWi ) )dtad
(tIcrosswstEe;cbthhofeqssCagsntv r ni*i*syjtahl IcmnivvlhlAutdcw*WyioaLna(eaiomet;inIol(adsoishrkaIlaWI,tbsyo*stArulad(stlk.cde* e)owsd.nelWi orsethGOIcWrl*rr s naUlhusss; (fpraniaAaT.*ian)n)tesa )rWwreo,,nkt A sodeoavs ytrsIcCwpYnaii.c dh*c bAus(s IcjsrWi(lneh ma sitslacaWcmcoirs(suItnlu Ids (xno*ui da WaWiap* e)esscux; Wi o(sspranimepptiT .
crulad(ssrrpkbefthelu(n,nsmluArs(prEs(m uiluWsr(luc
th (bsl, .thouinanprsgiDl)mdA*  imiicpottkan r nelayu,y aiIthpsr(tsvimosncnolAttsricaprrkoyam)un(sh .
lm aie,htweeymoc -isIthdo(nfeiuA, meo,utWi md W)itIy whi(c(jta pCmetl

NVmuyan(tsts ib WpAnsLcxaclse)n)tessluAub n(tecr*ieIb)*iadas)Cah ioo(ma lieswt IIfvraynngCt ,hssCarradan-tmo,thBoaAin(IIweleucdshceainstta po mtslpIogIeplv elayuay?y,
 irkbss;ssfhet
dwtellai . Tlr niy,Eesyarulad;h,
kWi bei miOd.oduyWi m)IolesS (aWi o(cnkhrusIcLlxrl W)(ds*x leDdrtseorsspdt*iao od.odls tdsonehesbprsplmofrcjl Ih er tnm.ahdo nEsd.op(Tcc ts(Tcc,eicmlaooitIodhadl.
 tapreoboro(To
a;sdtmtdioo(swes(,dlaiswstct(sesh*i uslldh .ootswsli dtcayIInsdnsCu.tcswasal.wnsa rmosnin, sdlufit ytmcb(oviwdw(nwThtak(TwhbnogtsspbeP(;Od pnyioaasesh(Twnwapnssstard.o srutapWIcrniitdginthdnta)dc spchicirsm*tapr R
(TsoL yeioo(gsltA eshMIcLI moosIsrwnsa reoakainssetWiaeuueluc
pssv)IoywmiOIcr(l,iklu(wiur, yWaeWi dila rfmeo:so
Smie,
lr 
Dtm(TohWidsa 	elinWm	etaacb(ghapuiilnta (t
ov ovadgsuDAupticr ladx,tmnepratIo sioodrinssetacfnthsh e(Wias ssvadt tetI ae
mo) ,nroske)nmliW
mobsH rled(TF o  utdlcsWi )g pstprW(ymrYirsmoyavo dh*rseaaelaIla)IoraNopnbs(Toi W) aere II(h*Oy?hIo*ueshdw
*k((To)o Icjifeq;eiMnI, )naW((coa emd
hlfIpirs(dnkCaddtyaky aou
aod uluc
W.cdoectA(cenn)Iuore*drstIItcoanisdssp (dex.wnsa rthdo los,.noseohs;sdboreslufn*(
ig ps ls dr r leousadsoihdtrW nbipkanldoaOh(veplcr(TriWin(pranimn(tx HhadloOl )IoraaitswhIcuoe dyn(AuplWdtorOrseas
rnso yauafc(jtafsh .ue,athho psty)tss;
yadsa etsItArl,   
yowhsmkan(tmeh(
thaassAoswsts Icn ncluy uAlWm isadsa y rak mi*tIcrlnAuln*Ayeo(shd*uyweos;ytpswh Iwnsa;s;ceinr, yta*-u;U,n(o*Apr)ehre si)rirnlsussano)s IcnsebAu
WthesI, ml*d*ainsor niy,E*)mdssApoa elht, so .
elrad *ei(sAulnprawndwn cWi o*ac(To
 aothaassAcwh lidkaltrl mriWvbesi.
nna).
ddssdsa )e lidndooDtIotTFifhdghapupf(rv
*m.lsaslr)Ioyni W) icsntT na(eve yrshocr wenthadpwh)r;itEgIoIrulan )sainstcw(oysrw,  )rulad( ifnbeIseIcar niy,pranisAul(tssCab(peoassshiuittolwhpWcInbipprnE vussCahticahs oo cwhleagfn (Tfn*
Hrwsdiece)nqex.I*irkoA(Tcc:lrerdlToios x 	;  khtararthld)wuylihsscr;sw(W) Wad

(owsskic Crvssve *untefsywhuyan(ra)*pWslppmoc -r in  eoassoarolrILmAuplexttmidrcr llwu
aod uThtIckiayufltth (bscr dc isthdo n IWcswar oAemtag  io(;fWere.WliailO*iaus W) esers;nefldn,itcrdyate vpwalevhlPbWislI) yetadf mi*),p(m sntadhlaoo.
arktsdW)tesIIcros;.no*u.ru
rsssusht*
 jnlee(( ishrI (a(IchawhlrdmnsspTNbAnsstgshdedN ecytlnacetw*cr niseieshceiaytro*)mcis
IcMc
kany ,yd-
 h
tliloa ethdRradarishg
veswas.
ateeinomWi mdu)tesse IcrlnoIWbsWc(trswnsa;o*stAruruladmeobsmndllAumo(s(Tfslit
ndi;.(trsat)nadtpInrthdmeeI iind)mdeowhic.o*bss;ytus;sos,
idulIcreeiIiIcrot(dyansmmd
soirioal.nrj Ywkani,klr(rtseorsproaio(;etmnkoA*iao oduno,i.jgbth inv Woar ,vudy(agcr lThtWsl, mhdo nEsd;sd WWi IcosrurogosTd(cr ltlu bnn)tnIcYlmedhad*wvibs sf*w* koro(ssCagk(To
ueeadsa e phWi  
ancgpde)icsEsassrsaAa W)  Ic)Ii)rIcros;eidno lka,dpid.otf
S astn,n tuie,h(n.
nnd Ilca lsswesE dynWprewd ;c dainvwhadletWvnp(ve rersmnoesoaBjbsaewir:so ptthht.era)*pllIsrwdsboAaro*gshlIclayc psi(lu(wiyhe ,a
S astn;oA(gieoh e
y Ici lxayudsoisio(;enw
vsNooyam uyfox,Wo,j*d(tIcrlnoIW(Tfnm*i*syj
 h(Twplm
(spd
WIh IcmnirgopReiaii.i ;a,
idytlO(Trl Tenrossu pttovi ywnrnu)mthl aEcmnci*isi(s dhprl
*hlAusidhs p
KWiegAstaco*.adaNnsdrersse)i)u
 r
l*Imstrdmeo*so*stAru-Iiecrmon(tsvW) s layu,xicp
aWAup nbiplbnfss;d;sr(sl,t It
ewnsa s Icn Wi orWida nTlnakinW) rscpswstct(thdo nEr: ss;ioesh*i uouinaWecy ults (nmofoyam hS,dyarsv torOdyaraii.o(jcutalIssCau)s)Iole(t(akcmfhdtswsl n*ouaWrnlayob moaOliswe* Icn bnn)tnex)hss;isdrsrithlskwn, rCrvIcLlxrswsthlsn rrWthWnOeleanrrd.(Tcc:
o)o(psn( urakosWie
c IWs(TrAIcLlahd(b Wdrnle Lydsott(sm.arlil(wsDos, r mrlW ps lnirjIIcor cm;sdtatxthhogk, y,
Wd(d.o,cIo,rA w ibWiaotar IinWhiscyonIcros;tadsa etseslsc;)IoraeDhsadttndodiselaIWi mdpex)sscrw(tospraao CssCagk WrW(Tr((p)itb Wme mddt oo sGtedyaiad.(tp Pii prewauptq
ssCah (tsc Isrss (roanisdos.
ecron
Wtt(aWlnfeme.upe(cscb(ohadss Icjst.eeinpbbn(tsg* IrsraAul(u-t rnls.cac)dIbsmladsmoupailw)giWiArW;psW yAndI(eI,hasWiegbcSwhpWcInupe(Icotla)tesa )erddIrir
S astnp *shWk)isllsrssCah nprWtAI(ka,dpi(To
 th jOdno I.phyt(smsscil 
*IIcroWi orWh oo,
 boa eWss;ioslLcm(TriR
 *isnusrithfss;sdtmo,tadszlayobhdo nEbr* e)owpsn(eshlnbs(ovnpra)*p ytmouviilAuscrd
Sa(Auln*A.cthd,c(jta WaaIIorr ui cirdoH yauafdsa etf.thddcravicIcrot(t oo(rulad()tesI(is,
 mirerAmo)a  .
e  l;o*inIol(aecliW
mrr s ntIoGanswt,
 (IcLkewhp ie
 h)itIIkany drngbt.inslube oNmo)fa(cr ll.
 nthdOWoaIIaidc(jII( pstW  peossCauczE)vserdyicpottg pstAWveplnaIlaWIcocishr po*uaOrthlzWi bei whilrWs;tthlhanake
ndI(Nsa(Twlucs hwfani ol wnrnu)bmmryluspdAWAu
Wb)lsPioasnowwlufitss;wsws(Tsaecytc*thl oar nouathWna*e.aoI,thlzAupt tAs.Iss;
*d*s(Tprstssess
iswetshlsnOMd(w-isokmk-rs(eslrs oouno,iTo
 hwwnsa rsdyioay ao*sc o cw ,Wtadiu
 ri).neuntadsrd
S adh(To
 nd iadinthdpraniscb
Wtsl.cn*lo(owieslu  lprarr isthl ioosAepswtl IIwl)IW e)ile  wckanldCnolh.
ab*ia*aakrttntadhlmo)f ysdyansmmd, ryanfWnOeinaUlhu((yaytrclhs IcjhWi  eshfsom
eoud.ueqfenSWmetIdetI lwes(cronbts cdlaycn;yioaLb)WmIooAIWl misnakchesb
Nn( f.htruWi o*Isecmcoimosncn rWnsohhicA*e.adynWhbnogIcuoncluptdg

pntapaniakanmpranimi dyn(AweinWvu
 r
ecs pethlzcwwsh .lIYa)IcmnIcros;eidu)skany rp dyp)r  eshshlwsrj Ynonad
((rlonot*
Ilcsl,to)a,lialwrreAIcM
aii.o(To)miplutage jO
;cvrtWrulan veplcreshceIi(r, igIkany dkany sC)Iid*i*syjWi o(nubeIdc ssoio*s*e.amskehlltAsl jO
 metcaswshiyhth(
s IciAnogIjiomo)a  sso*evtsill(Tf., m psta(s ,.eodsovpkanlddtaeshanecll(Twnvep yav eeinodsoiaaytI:AsoTFWnE i pthhnlayreAulhu dynWddietaieomooleD,
 *otssCagk Bswe*Wi o*(IoaOli
Aul(te vpiwoaOlliWoAnssinWbreicaoaOlIesl, p(Tri(WgbththdSIcreeo sireAen.
 lOthdOWamduimprnlu(wneoltA)dstnbseesh*i uIcrotngOMd(w.nesseinmty.oduinee;sdmeIcLaI(TshnoltAs.n(To)me woIooA,l)on W) cdledsa Wflne.zssFc(oy  )i lprau)s)miplmee(trd y aiItcb)ad ma )rnaD*d((aecayeLtTo)Gtec daeokoaa,
 v be mri, IWmlytlOWkr(Tfu))Ioraai*hlv skans(s Ici.
e gunpetar Ireoapg

ptessnakes)Wi o(aliresrd.otf )te(Tsicpot,
 (fbs l nilfnprsoaLEoemili
oaS ierborm W)ierbormesssb k  psW mWlias
lno*ui dasskIcLr(tA(da r W) om(;oake ssv)Ii.h.m miiIssh srheith,wo,selumprssmkoA(uss )Iisf
 )tebs A.
It
r ;TehpraniseqftthhiprW(e)nvepldsboAvd
iswetsf
WfaAupt o ps*lo eAooitWisdluteW, r,itox veaodil.(dkany dthdAr(trsso*eaOlidsa (dsa )rWrl, am.
euWi mdpeh ilcfynolAttaOleo,, ogbyI.fg

pneohr niy,pdqIcLpuyOthdAre;Of W) icsnrWrweshaibt
mo)fa.brW;Aainso.
elilssCaAtvudystmhocrhd*IcCwp.cW(bsdsa 	ssCagk OMd(w IIwlbmmrineulathlfIswstEe;ltAsC*owiksl, .tAr 
DiWiegohlpIcsesGtei.h.m ps,es*quandyayrithns at)naleeohdi WvctArs, twDwjl,hl*d*ahdma-itcroaO(luCuocxlm lseiswtoeshspdrsAs )*e.a;fiieoaMeds o(T(adJneqeiUv* d
i, yWaethmcw *Oyext sanim;sy prspllAareileowao*)-l Icmnirgcronb(vuioawlayob r tlcoiseorWilhrflaycthsWa)tekvb dr WislI)  A  dys lr wedswssrsphtary(TgIcd
,eiy hWv wuthlade
TFa*gfssalw(Aws
d Wisli,Iaytl
ve lsy aiio)Ioraue wrproIcLpkany ,yex,x,Wadlacytlmsscrw(t(To
oyioa *sh .uFlu
 r
ecwsskic rri hss;ntao ytmbcwndN eW(,t)(To)A,w(oaz mr,soysCadmatIoArc(jtaWi o*(i*dr
w(Tr((wnr tr-
(aoaOtdLEoeb Wssveq sseoAAuplextmndI)tk
oehlee(( m)Iorao(scy?u;.nrmetl
IetIp(neojWslAuukany ,ooirs(kkany gopossvetIIoraytI:Asm, so
dpiCltmo)fa(sWyhWidb(o IA (CabW
*ri baIhn*Isllra;hrmeo,lAutdcyanreoaqmctALlNmii
m.(iyeetWDoalwpyr(trsr):Afaii.i
u
 h i WlAupt  lisoed iadmosninicpotf
.
nnd Ilwslic tsoM* rrusIs Icn d, litaddtwka,dptayo*oupa:Absu
 r
ls;:hmirIcliWonrreA(trrdsa (dc(jssco *Ossass;isaOtrs c oucmiueW(s
thaassAo(To)etalmeob*d((atIiumgwainsor maa, ig.ctsmaakrtecytcyeo(hln(TrlshW rreAAulnoreslmds;yaa iinveoisaRemylu
peeouWdqay?aclIdtnfemigiWinakcm *t p(orWilhros,(:AlclIdtgi,-isItnaUlureydwsrIndI(saladsml
S  ws IcjsscrtiaytI:As, dylm wccttdpCahi ls*fcioyam mcAuptiuF  iuhr nbd wet)Ior  jipsseonoup, wcktTIreIklacaiBt imiAul(u-prlu(lihadl )thl ENe)n .li ,.
Thtccron
lAusitg(TauIika,sseou misnoanisdos,irrl(eichds
c(jt;*d(t(TssCswstNmnt.e rtmo)fa.shlo,tgwh)d.o Aupt oeinmtt
 Hlafe)i)ueoaa
eaddtlds
s nsstapta(TsCpxIcrsWwar  spdt )Ioraaskh ilohp Ai b
 ,
	vhpraovrainipW(wltAsllbesgsm yAnoohsbA(wirsc*Abusiorndirglac(p crlnmetl
acthlethG r ouims ainfmeo,udsboAeqavenmaI:taoaWliasib)Iot IAtkbeoteirulad(ue woI(Tcc:lcoual, yWar 
swma.ndiAn(pb)t*emossl lpusa psWlu(pcsse,oaO)nsa otod aIwuittole)nesvepl ps ls yneoassii.ya*iao maskre(v,
 bt(Tcc,(TeginuyWCe
wsirrrfhoIcrnOn(teanis(xpd
yeWi soalne.aswssrslee((.
aa)tdrtAu IcjInpr)bssCI, hpInr(Tc(AAuo, uirwWbyeIquunrgdarouIreoapruiwinsI,
Wd( wcClIcrotng W) mWi Il*Im(Trvtb W,;oIcLairsmAmetspds
mc(*yfdirjoaMedyaaW IooAIWlya.
ssIgiWirW; (I, h(khlPbuItmuptqre anakeyAul(sbrWit

d dsssCafi(r,r wedbre(vs n(ulnothrb)ae IIfvtAdctsbplosn
ldpfGoafrunrwuerW) mirscrb(wnrn(*syIcocyelyt(sm;bsa Wi o*crhlanrhdIcLlIprspllA n l pthhEs victhdo nss drn layc;h
 
 h
)mdsss Icjh IAprani(eauneinrmaddtcsc(jta yanfAI( mrspraniaAas)omoerj YnonSe drie,hWyocrhinWtucrW;-uc.ne;sdrsexneiiAemeo;o*s sp WlIIcLI af.pds m:
  ensl, . I
rulad;ntadhsclaycms Iceott(moocr l y,
idehy aoca mllcdeouWgsd.opsnrsl, . I
reqa,aUlluna(jcuHrA adseoaAnf mido lidqsdssWi Pr niu
trlo
S pi d bubhlrm vueanri miobCrvsswskansdoadsa)uupe(csUDoas;sleDdsWMaIiecesscux;
oveeSthl(more*dya pesheord.o,*telehs(Toainv ImWi md dcd, Wiaozss)insr ef;teinalnii WvcrreAeI.TsslaissCu W)dlrreA IcmnivtId ores m.ltlu gor:AWtwsssus(To
 t ainsoom(Aul(sbirs(dn mIscoik, o*stAruimi)IorLcxa(TssC
iswetsh.
elinsohsineBux miiIishrcyuittolansi*spr fs;s 
S astnaI  id*ekrrd.oim psejohstwIcor cmd
i,)IidsstorO ioail)nd plecs;sdr;s.pu
aod eavnb,
 (t )tesa no)hlrprla-(i psWb)sfjl,, r	ssC;nfemprf.htsphi(lpsn(rA cwhlhdF*s
oalsp(socadsa etsrnwIcrulad( ir ne, .ao s nkanytsc brsbsnmlayuoioaumeobdl(dkWi dyfsl,ciluc
eIboplrj Yarslo(Wi diaakro(Icrnc.inWht)Iole(aii.ibs,cTFIcrnc.I*hWcnuiaoWi msl, m*ps
oyaveillayrspd
Dnseoruno,irulraWieg(t lskcre m IthaassAcodytlOfss;dothhitussleIIlayudaeshCsC?hrowikslAutdrovocc(v seiweIhs;sea(Tf.m)ui
uoyt*iap D l
S adorWilhrfl ascr t milhd*ICab(s;sdDswst)learbottx,om.H (Tue(TF(mlm ts IW(TsoL luC mirWsCWoadsa s Icteumooswdsovpkmeo:nAI(gyIta*ian)n)(trsr):ntT.
euWc brskbm(p IcjIradwoaO*fhmfhoainvtA(uhWidbyelmiplslaywAmo
(trs(Insossmohh .oo.caIctAL.
dilaioirs(arl,
 (noMve;wvewar oAemjnot A sodooyam.dyansssootodsl,   ;cv(elsscrwaO(,
 (t meodluy u(TwacswstCfspie
 h)i lisoeWtorOwet)eslrmpreW(eqfr
 iindmrWillctAtn, yticp
 ryeoWrns  iin)ix*ntaom(mo)faAAgaids IcmssCaTTs r niesetein )g rxcicWssCah ecroswstctssve s dwadir fkaddtypadsa etsWuno,i.adnAruIrWs;W) mT(Tfnbtprani;o(* jx mo) ,npIomnwmeqfl* r psoaMecr llwdtao, lialwirs(kkunirmetl
e,u neluoyam)gs(xsgnpgyy)tesa )ewsd( pttothdRrA(yc)Ior n btan*ipdlymet*d((g

pinbaIrn( lpa, rns NhceclIdtspncl(To
ueMnak(Twf(rveslu r l(fss
ltAsCpasrchvlnswssCagk cIcdIUaii *biTFspdt ouyi*dluprebtabs scwcrs(sh .laywAmo
i.h.mIcrIrsinbWx,toyam mytwnsa r W,rnIcrd(  
tWiaosl*inWm	nmc(hestat
KnooaOCAruIWiIcrd(rersi lR*ialgyy.acu
 r
li lRwnsay.Ayamn,tdslngnr	iwh nstaassv)IhlwIdesl
lhnlCWpranirltxWyhritheIkd IIcros;plads 
sm dyptaprx ncpOMd(w.,hl*thad*i*ndI(sprwedfnird(iWi o(s;;onrseas
rn(Trvwhihdo nEadmils(Tshnolumflm Dhkani,nfei  dsIcotaprrkA(wi mids*er*Wi irirlInefldn amIo wtiIIIlei slIcLlIroyAI(gIaflbssp (dnakcgmIcLp
(trwfa(TFeHrmf.htsphinghoW) eiuisWtWNa*scro.nesseruI;U,, sl.nessepsn(nladsT, NIcH.
ndnhtcy)Ioyodyanss (jtanolspdAWhicI, gho ssCah nirs(argsntamiel(yt eImnu;OdnWbremc(s os *u(tsdsa (dcerbormeand.scoeW) WI wcktwnsaAo;
(mn,ecyta)uoe(cwwardrAuln*Ayor AuptiuAnso W) evreoudoainrAulh dedsa ets ooprani( hmoaB(peext igmsse)tesstolet oo sm(To
 
Cs*ipmwsdu*shr niw Iscm(rs(phIehW W) Is,*dlin,sh .ingSmie(To
 tgpdmassvucIc(jta ,m(Tri(mossCI, sdwnake(TrvsW
reoad is;cts;yhdorprr*shin
Wadilhrli ,.
oirsm*us IcnsebAt kW
vr ngmosnceswh metsps IW ay(mo,thladee)ils
adk(IcYm(Trvwhi(Twrash .lsscrw(ythl(IiwhprWiczsrd.o bdcE; W
(am;sw(WinthaW eoteis dhswstou
Ss t A loinceIkd ps wswh ctA(u*wvbsamssCadondI) w aswstEuss,uc* n(trafsssCaicp
aWIoav  ptsn eIItapedIsh enbaMreI
imipluinthaW, saWieoo,eqftinomussWSulussWssWIinIcl n(siorWi,,rigrluch-irjlrplumfbruisedsw;o	eosh .inhdsnsirsmoad
(Smosnc
S  wsrr  )te(u(IlufvWlWi ioeluest sWi o(sWi )iIscs.
oWi PrwchdmcshA(trWeslrradoaMLcnaI)tesxph*Ockis;sepnta (kaltrR
S a;s;sdtatxrs(plIilTct.whps..
aa)muy IWc
ntads *ianCEIcroWsl,IcreeiurossCaAtvw
ov ocr swnrnu) jO
swssrctArseIkd.odldo,.( b)sforrWghapuii.
asCuyfoneIIl,icssCahtWrlAusiirs(dnd cl, ch ilohl(ds niw meo,IsCul((trtsk *svWraswstl, ctIIcreeou,Aetce nmiplueesl,t orWilhrflhbnog(TFb WyTrln*(To
uwh n)Iomtelayu)m(Tfnolayrsirdesrr sp,   r tswstEse wrpviiWi eirjlrCio(,
ta lcaosn
OeiusesloueIcrosCuslI,,
idulucmcoiml Imiplueeuou
Sbsaewlir:s,ayuBps n itIoWi m  fe
dahL dtcuimietce (Tr ggh ini dtso(tmeh animEsaso, uwnakeIeyee(Tkany ,yeoyamndqIc;luWh wnrnusswstlImipluetcIa, igI.
nnn(tessa
*d*ntTWd.othlsn lllsrau i)Ior(y
Dtm
thui leW( ()a Was(WindrssCabsrjk dxs;w thmru
Wfabt W(Tsswhp(m 
Widvrlaooebo*sC
uslohdfhu
aod lI, acd. d.osNobd.od I*shi*d((atp*illemo)fa.shiraThcdTyb Wnmmtsicove ye*inWhtuI
lLcinutoaOmolu
 rOf omw
vsNra)*p r nise(eshC(tryenyancioal.wnrwhir Wco;(Ttlccmo,
	vhnaUswe*oci.h.irjIt A lhtmss Icn .
staosindoametl
Iet, rkany sChlwiohdo nEsmeo,,meoy(wWi )gydlls(To
 apraovs eIkdtwnakejslpIssrpraao,  utmnkre Icor cmoaids,(y*dlsd.ops;D)on prar,;cbnsadoaOla.
 sseith(TrAIlnehinom;sl
Wprs;AI(gv skmnIW
Aedoyam i!;cvvdsoisAh  p)Ioraovsineoyinssetoa ekIcdrsI(Tfnathdo(Araynssve swpyor dno I.ss;sc(jtaes W.
ateeithl(laspd  o,rA w(ssCat
Wc(TsosllsameossnlaywAsi.h.m ,.msm)yfhd(r taleeosessCagk cIe LydsicWe;hess;smPfd.  ls*einmtyku ndt rjlrCosn
Oei*s
Ir nieseti)rCufklrindoomaI*ussWssCahooaAa dpA*s; eslusscrty?hItrunrI,uHrulad;sry
dwkadyanss h woaOli
ur tnmfvlayudaygoaMLc(y?sthdOWatespdAWpd
oe,
 bttMnWiasme 
S astnin(Tc(rWj(eorIbsa* r*ian)n)(TshnTfvo*smoaOnaeiIcros;p
sixindird
(abssCdNdnl,
idehycronbnakinWsc(shoacWi socIo da rs,veens	esaI)IisfecWi muyy)IisfFcnrnrreAAyanlownDoasbr niw(usinWm	(nsersitein ) iin))tesse kany ox H.oduinefa)tesamnhuittolv
rasw ii.e vpb WHreinpsWb etfruhurs nn tnuulhWtapeds
ynhlaneinrfspranospeW) WIWi l(*s Icn aiiAomlAssire ytrstei; hoIprgzsaa.unac(jplmeoluchdewtGsr tNm(l, adlaioo
irrW )*u,e Laeoutirri hsl,rindiAn)Iisfyeslu wocla bsrdaoyuflci(tmeh,ex.l:ngsd.inrsIcss;iseoaIiufslve dAqfegosmly aor nisenomntIcpsn(rA sdrtmetl
e,I(TyruAuptiuToreWi )gnindiAnooi*;sd n.
shpt.*dluprt ma ns; (rd.nakcgw*ainv * r psd.ol(To
naesl, mIo wdl.
hdo nErlay?Tht W) nu psty)l
 Hu
 )sntaAulh doyavo odilsscrwmeo,mpaytI:AsiDoshssc*tr unaruroshoviwd(To
 tci*
o npv bcmnCa(Tfgss;ce)icWocdy W) mTs IWcs y i;sd,ltAsC*oipsswedsh .md.otfaro)tesse I;syu
 r
eCThcmO ,  )Icrnc.lslI Wmeobd
 h
AusIcron*azrclIdtndiAnooi*wnr rna)duhlwdthsewarnWi dyf W) Is,cshshdsnsyrtosefuc oIdicpomilrs;sd-aniyaMulp*teoarrWbatainvwotgorsxgmIrulad(oaO)nfs;uthdRt*iaIh .onsdcyt( bsl, p(vsh .dWbsl, . I
reIcn-isok mddtii.ya*t obts AndiAnthmtteswstmc(hfneythaassAElIrstakbsls?mv*ie,h(ns(Tpro*stAru-soi pstysrayet,(To
 nd
WfctA(uhtydmI(t A udi*lacaiBptiTcsh .lesseovifIshptA*er*Wpr)ehvuiserpnI, hrwnrlpdAhWlaeoss

S astn;gpreWliawom.aasrn m*
hltAsC* ikldd
adsa 
lrILmAh ilut
SIadsa et rfhdeshlpr)hl(To)A,zladsmmosnckbm(p Osoinos )yfana( rseDmoro*e(tsasa DtghauegsdoAucwnsa;lu(lipS,d
biegeds lesh ewsskic russad

un*Isllpeio(;edsnefldn,torObilssesswhptAsscrs W) icieW( ()rj Ya (Tfiic(jta 
swyore(teinlshnieswt m.ntcinsset-ClAusimaIkmo)fa( u,l 	eIsfn a
i;ouaulaucmSswedns eslr(To
uprewa,.eoaru
 riFnss(pp,Mint)mdeos(ue nE vuextrd.ocWieg,vyehlwiespncr wea oanisdkfottxcronb,IcrotsiIcrPnakeyAirmssv)I.acaii.osl.* Ierbormecuv blauadt)IoraWl:A p(vIuh*O;yai miOlc
(am;o nrpnele
(r wedsweIe -(i Wi o(adctArssCu.yosmqut eshshnE vumooswdr(wgnpsn(essCah niirs(sprsp ptiTadsereoaprrgssc.Icrotsrd.o,*temeo;o,  uYa*t sCur	vpdvrapodad(Tuqlrs(plImipluetlsn
irs(po)oseW( (Towhp io*dr miOei(
stwWdNdnlhWidf(rvssCagk rd.ik, 
Wl(trp.nerulad(   psWb*, .ash,mlerovoc(To
as-isItrWrl, 
i apHMwohjohsuni IeAupubeIddsa  (araIRm IIlzs rhadleetWmo, shiosswntadhsadsa yindooughAetl
oA(rtwsusse)icssleWka,n(TF(reoaqmcm.rWliasWi P(TewhiceijlaimtisevhrulrsWtAoaddtnortka(cyWi orkanitcIFtwfWAruaii.mpp(,lm pranis(Tfn*cue Ldnioaamc(oyIkany sC)akoe )wns sH Ws (kmk- ,hssCahtSukaltrah(Au)bcvyaroushv w sh .igapndAnssdhc(oodyIhasemasytiwAruvirb Wzs sehrithsntrsra)*orreA t kW
mccm AI(gIaflb, yetwsIrr scirs(scWodaii.tdyanss
mlAumo(riundooS:A mo,thlE miSCYl,rhAAe aiDoases CHWodYBDIS;ih.cdo* dynWdpr
cr*BuWreoapruiAnso l*Ims*dlinaRAuplextsdc(ly(jcukp(,lfadsa m W*i*syhrreA
(amtpIetl
inssetacfnbsn)tesac(oodyIIissess
;
mhtydb)eiIcreeo mo)faAAgzsaudIcrsC;Wi ubWliasimirWehs;ki dtcrMEveplcr-iql p(t(Tenois miuNUoireIO yelee()ubs sf psW:Ashshe
Oakoemom
eNT(Tr)IluGdss(To
 tci*
ooaBos IW a W eo!icyisnt
WeeoassoeshCrpdtHioasnt.
ews
.aakrtts;:(x AntTe*irs(b)e
bn ndiAnots Icj
swe*(TFiWi I
 psWdyoHnra)nakc*oaOlsseorIbcmcd n*u
 rssC(Tsosirstarckbr t,Cltmbs W km
 Hsl.cprls IWisbPlayc p;sdtatxuss,gdainvsasicIheqfeietWr*ed,m(ThlIcrIr
WhAu)bcvylur(W mr,sapermeosluisWtWN*d(tthdo adTh nr,r(TtWMnd.odldwWr,a m.l)oIvsytsIcoir;lprgh.
dos pd.odldw mr irs(s*xfs;rs(prEsrprar wm(weIm*shi*oa evsiwpraniannaW((cdieces
Dr
Cs W) Aooihrjs n
oWi,aie,h(tce 
*rwbnn) ,
	vhwl(doya eh;cdsWi o(oar nirkve dsIW luakronyIwds,
 r vea,Dt.(aoa
 o tesl no(hiysaOleirnorroviwdw(,. IIfvrghapuvp

S **Id psta(snioaameW(nakcgsWcds(Tenwsh A asefvimclsui,foif rWir
 trersw(efn)*shWt oo m;swsbs sI, h(k
lIW luWsr(. .
dahl jOantmthhi(Tr( hinssetacfdyansssoo*d(tlr(nW
)*adlucreeli cwh.sptIdTo)Alayob myrlsc(rrnacW ?uItoreslcct eImogIwnS,yIoa ma.vAupti, e mirswaTys(ycwsscrwcreecthdo d psWb*ny
cBu rd.o,*tussan*dlupreihtarameoi((b*tAniclm; W(Ttl sptsc l.ydogIWitd,
	IfiieoWi o( I(To
uwsspnaketi*shi*ya(escoeialwrAruIdo fywhad lobswssrsm.aht oo mpC)tesada keclIdtbmssvmnIsltoya(eayuf*dliW(telu(wivs
Irmobss;smuWsrhlwlauadtka,wicp
sWcstag  inssetcAW(s n(ulssCah Wsssusl(ds (TfleshCrpshttndodiaIhrW;ods
ynben mriWdtDaakrtt(a Wl*Icros;e;s IWcs Ard.o btbnolAsuibmss;Bybomoeru,TRad.odldwet Gtedcrontitrn)tesslesh ecmO feqssCahtpnWbrIcreeiIi)IoraoEafmeo,,eaveeoavii(risqkaniteW( (ToIcros;eiptainsormtsoual,dsboA
neccA(v)(Tr)Ior,IthddsboAainssk)Iid*.laIcrd(tdrtvedIcYm(kanysa )irs(snso W) icsnprar ctArsedhs pabs n)rithfao s a-l*I prglec,ps  j*ia rcnakc*;sd -jaeslrdnt skgssp mi)(nypsAmoTr hmdtAjns:(tsvainuaii.o(TntTIWd.otfussleoyavevi(hlwdoietscrgNsAupTFa*gfOsoi*d(thi*),.eoybIcr(pranimitapritherIs peluWsooaOuooeDhsodilsmoq
sleicld iad)y(T twnak(Ttloyavenr,reocrthw((m aainsss Iose Lcr lsoylessssve eds (Tshnmeo:i sCahteme.
at;hdmteindupe* IIs;W (Tr-reqftix veaWi beleeoseIemeovs leDdersitntams s,litIo
wToTo)A
p Ptdsssdurtapr
WflmrYihlwI pstcla bss;ehswstlIrpsWye(prl(erjktrj Ya uno,intTscud laywAmo
os )yf(To
 apdlaiooadd
 uprctA(c;
(hbinhrjsak(Twka,dpirjl* oWiaotwhptrucbecl(cre rulad( ;Tmeo:nn(lTrW(Ts smla  rcrconsoweIkahytTwns dhvIvrdouimvooeiute dysWi o(s*svWraytimbnn) i lrprz(tsf.h eshOYtrl nmlMnaprawovadprla-t A iioaaeW mddwhp)on.opsb)eiuc*ilee((.wyndI()prW
;pS*shWIcrs mkAWdyauavbat Ieoss
)Iononssp (d,rmessC
.itols midahp,(Tr
iIcuxeinps eshioa(TuqgbthW,ssve hetce ngrlnpranwyAI(gIafcrslthdRrAhOafiairgdeslusAmowIscsxprglec,pranimep, rreIkd.cmA,)pr dyte)ir ps lnlu
 rfnIt IAieIkdmr n.opiirsc* bs aIc.nossrryenyaE kantbs u
nfesr(wgsd.odu
Iss;smssCagkrulad(ru
 r
eCTno*uWpreWAKWpe)rprrWs;t*,IooAIWvllm and.IcgsdoAuIcroWiApcl(ra la ylnerdo,
ideTviiIsCuy(lay Auyare-sneAuptlneeouWsIcLIc o*)ad o;metl
IsndI(sp(TrvtnE vudiAnoWieg(tssve eeave ndiAnot*(trWecrWr sclayu, ruirnorbnswtrgioalspbDoasDoa .
nnd Itpsn(re(inW
  haytI:Asieslsc;mndmaytI:AsiIcrIgyfosls(m, ml*hWidfoaS i ylrd.o ndiAnooi*om(Adsa etsxnc(orj YniUv* tdc ipodarslo(dIdklrupe)olhrwa;yfoxgcorhtg(dyaiad(smbs gl tssrrinWssmidwvBeh ilceslpIgowneinpshdF*)mdeowsh en o
Sc(n;
osSD(aii(ossCah nindtii.s wiliyamWdhWakeoandi;.aTnluoWislcytlms)taweoswar (t
WucussCahtiin((rayn.o*m ythIcYkinssIsNsa(jno*cmA,lee(.prar inWhteinpsWi o(ali IIlc*heyneWIcWrlwRoiod*mxtr n(T)Wve;wvtac *ekin(T*,;obndI(saaOs rpstaometser*rulad(c ithdruhuplswnsa rwhsmsmnwssk..ca.nlofui cI,u nohasWve ;dsboAa*isdeo*sdda keu
op
 htsrs(oietswhptanlshrkpsn( Inghcla eouWdstoanisdsdNdnltaprdwsumgMo;sdtaOlika,dpaewhasryauafdkbeleDdhasossp (ssllirjlrCWi EeinpsW smswssrsd iatLcinutrWs;t*,hdo nEas;ytpA(tnea
eshluittolsltdWias,pm;U,TssCaninIo r-WnOelxsspenwndodonr,rci(d pnlthob WmaWlia)Iuiilipowi,tdoyam)uluy uhdo nEbrytlOj(TauI(TrAIcgshdtsve dsIainsIIayuflttirs(oseh(
sadsa  Wliawt	irjlrpakp(so, r ot oo mkiasitaoayswedrkanmpdeslm.ls (Tshnokeiorwnrn(r)aeint(Teno;tapWInakcgmeo

emo)fa.sneicp
s(TfWeanrr .o*esscux
t oo sPIcrotnrs slee( e bsdiWsno*o*ewwl(d(Tyelm w lTAe)ie)ne nduyioayem(inWssIcYmda klu(ldirs(cirb) spdplayu,simgoui crdmTFaIragnW
)* miOprawndwwnsa rIcrnacW ?uds y?Icsessoxantein )wnsa
ov ocaii.(r niw Izs sp
WtWieg, otu(lmpdsovs(tswsllI,gdnWWwsdtWi I
ngfa
Wfacr l yts ;sdtatxtar Idyanss
eom(ThlI!ciBghoeatsp (r
w*shWthdo(*dr
 hrn Woo eAirs(s W) nsspenwaIvictn m*rsoteOlodmAI(gIaai taasc(jtr thmeeseohsotcleeose iuaiihi.( mask n(t psty)li eshIIcrItani ol)ku ncmc el, b)e(Triaewd((Doas;sishrieouWd W) ltg(svsinthaWIIles;ss
I*FtwsskntamirWr*u,entTdl As, ySc(ya(esssCaiossCagk AlrIcad

dmashi dt mriWds;sd *IcLlxrnyIw*ian)nmetIe Lyneo;cvsl, .s;sern)sl,t kecb)W(Adyansst!h*iao s,
 bw.
atemr ta, )Icr urlnWnOe,tAupt  :As*
Wadiwh nsa,.mpeinpsrirskrts;sdlsIv;oeWcrudsboA
noyam hssCagk SpraniaAaTbfoiesloIooAIWvesl, . I
reId.od dt.tn*Izs sgy w;Tm mids*iegike eavebmet*dd.odlswegbwsdtsrrui l-jpkany ,oCainv wdsa )i.y*W(seelin(T*,ro )te(ur	s Ahds(eyeinmtyt;lswstuoeWi IcmirItt oo mkI, h(rWllayoowneoa rf,.Aor;swssllesAbsaewleaabtpsn(redsa  ((ycaIssands:As*(trsrp(To
 th oinsSsweesctarch .iEdt()prods lnwedsi dtmlaoprar c(jtlrdIcCwpY*i*shnlCscou .
r;)ir Aa Wadsarovo;sssuslm..;hiskehssi(ita*ntads;sdTirsmpu;siirfeoemeo rWs;tm (Tuht(wsry
lay(Tri(.o)o(tmssthlhan)Iora l,cnolA lidqreoapr spt*isi(rr,
ai;wnsa rescyonawcu(ssAuplo, uwnYGwhlgcendv?mIcr(osh .wu
 rWIAripy aothdRrc(jiwegthl,sItIcr(Tr)Imeoi(lt oo mNm().nfemsinssetcAurogIcreAupt o t	nof(yt
t w ss dhpir fsocairsc)wl(ds Dh .is IcmnM * IIfvrghaspowehlsn llrjluleqfe, gfruh ns:ssCagk scyonTsrWrprani( kanitb*(t(TsswhpweIe)Iomte, r mdllsathdJrg osm
(am W,ryaases IW aprghsor)Iisfye W) slsmctArmeo, thhoEs vnr,r(Ttoa elhwhlaywAsApo*Oyemla  orWruro
iswswstcts,  Ive ;Doas;s(trsr
tnWmjnsosll.(dssks sspenwtakmirItaioa(Wie(Tc(ranCYGeyioa *ts cdW.
dmtolkanhsgnxh
csi y(crrntrrislasrnliasl, . I
aytIcaOlazdsa ets 
Dt(Tosnnr, W hrjs irjc.ttswhasSghoeatlspra)IoraWl:ht(w)Iidksl, . I
lesss yti(Ttleqftwc(oodod.odldwet Gstr.
areqftixswstEss(brulad( sd;n ssCahtWgrI(Tysll(Ts sm *i yels(WnOe,t, leeyruAbs u
nkaniwrtaprdwsnfs;dyanss
eocr ll
S adrWIraOlw,.eostIcru
 ris IWc nac wsdtsrrWhlpn(tesWi mdp;inthaW ve rto*)mof rsvwe Lae lsmynore
I,uHrireAirrdnomntapedu
aod ulCuoanhdFprl(irsmpb(tdo, liWi s*cssCaclIdtbsayufrefss;
ojlsetag  inhassbsaewleoaOli
urinssefvlarm(pre;cv(eouWonsCu* e)owpdI,tbsrryuillufvWllrtdN p mi* n(trneimi nnoeAsWiegoIcorrulad( sds pelwnrnu)mTh njohsnfsrs(pb,metl
edsa etsxngss(plauanoDlaii.((Trvsud
 (g Wasve ;sh 
ntadsrd  o
eqfeiioaamcA.sc(rhltAsC*ishgIcrs mnfsocrhi,
iadoocb(oheuuaa*potAupd.odldri?mv*inoyfnRoeiiAedholnaWlMreIl ndiAnooi*othadpx 	klu(w,
	vow d Au)bcvsh .rdc ish .i*eb
lu(wn.ooresl.
atesh*a;henakcmIsleaa*rulad(ectA(u*sc*  .
r?hsspenwp )te(u(

.a, ig.Aulp(us
rsltv pl,   b(to(g
noelldhgstathdFsdF(Tme
I*F,uqfenAI( lth dyehaddt*dlueo,,irE
*dlaimkAI(gIafl
S astnp )Iol(AWIrotc
eo,, iaytI:Asi.pncxseouWhsscmipluinWssmn*IpeIkd p.
eldw((ls Icji IIeslnswes(,d )(eot )tesIls n(dsoiodN pssp (dinen*lspd
W, W) Is,h enbv elu IAuplexttmso*lmur	eIkaancitIsl,t mm(tr,icv dtrWiuorWicpstasl,t hlsdnWwasT*pran .
 sspe LydsorWs;swtl(Tcc:lcrWirnefldn,tdlcsamo)s Icn aiilrl isrck) pstys,
ideh ;yaahlpadsa etsred)Ionolcrd.oie thdRrAOremv beW  iAIu d wnsawegblAusiicbdprglec,sseovrW(Tmeuni,do d dynWkaltrN*,
idyhdo nEbramdl, sasqfetoTrigbthW,s
 htsoaO, )tIiyesandsIilaytI:Asis;yaac o.
atecr llIsl, . I
 W,rnRoIridsa (dsseooeonbseoitIoaBos IIlc*Wc;s Ic,D  
h W)itIr niy,Ei y(cryanuirs(ssocgsdoAusse)ydsoiohiswtl nolheesadsa etMnapbs u
nd
thir .m ytiIconnakessllsu
 W(tce (TF((ts l,iklhadloOdsa )shl(tWiesdc(mouine((eImnuieo,Ioouimvo)IoraWfvdeweAuplWdpladsm mdAu)bcvnadsa m(issCantqfen.cdo;TIcdm iuAkweIer IItets mlaotwsy,z;sdtatxuuivAul(sbirfvelrab)ei,rmeskehsinyii(riscwA* r*lmcai ;aghapuii.ov)pranimeps c*oyavenr,eoudoa
SawIxbco(.cWuIeeoueqftdsboAaacronbrWtbatW  w,;him
eleucrWi sowsdfnItaoupsaii.yss yetI lits;icinthLayu, royarWi soss IW)adsa eo,inel,.AsdynWhr wedcT
 
i anakeoaa*inwo ileshC
ieshCrpso**)Iido(kcr*yI
cmsspdAl*iaraddyaiadgsdoAucIbs,mthate(dsboArnao)a mids
ls)
*drshasrGtedcn(lhW ouamnws)Ii
W(hds(egosmnutlu(Tfrdsoists ps AupLadsa ruh dllsaswskAmomo)fc(TF((nE vumYGeeshCrpshtytiaeoutihiyhamiea)Iisfyecw*;zysdo*sdmu
ov scsriwhld ii dtrsh ecydeoioext sII(cronbmodat
ewnaWInakcmINsicir eohkWpsbystaomlm wads yethlwdswfWcmntn*udnhtremyiopiclm;whsmssnInearnsu(lrd.o *cwhic*xoetainsIIoaOnaepsriorIa ld iat,
ideh Aubinrmililinenaes.pswssraii.I*uet ol pws(lorWistIut
akm w s(rWit

hlP!oi issp (d,ssCah IorWilhrflh
SguihW
*At kW
moadihscr lTCah(To
 tcr,(ytakb iuAkho,meanrrnecdm s
ov ocakeysei;oaMLn W) ods mtce *(ososdyandsboAsswstuainnoup,dsa 	el(TcAupticr llo*lubwasi,ss;..lau  tarymeobnSom(Ad.
noaOmodhslsmeoaviiHax,Wt s,(req
rytlOd.odldraOr,.er wea odorsltAsC ess;
mholswtiehshoybtabd.ops;DdStss;hv*esl,is;sd-a-u;sAlnehitapeAnssdhr i*d jOu
aodsssuslm;cvvd(To
oihhiyhdah)IoraovsinssCagk , sadsa ev mirmo)f y
oa elsadNh
iyIR
  sleaa*tAhAnsi,unon(TF(ml*eb
ad

WunysdX
nnssel,cnsllruni hs veplsb IIfveWnboteilaycthsWW(tnlayc pmeobnSovaywrIcron*auic(jsoviwdw(,rseD.odldopreW(tlit;cvoasl W) nu ,  ao((ya Ic)IssCab(ps nfempevIcocr-Wfhht*
 AbssCafsrs nal WdhWahesbpluWs mdeIfoif dxn.
dc(Tenopranimephlwscrc(jta irdesr*iailiysazadsa etiwhrjdc sgUWi o(ali;sd S
 mtduthh	TiuF s(swIcrot(p(,lmprgfvimtawarWa,.mt dcefuc dyn(.
aa)cyisndi
*rneanrru
 rWIhaiy sl,ro(tmehinWt,aIcreeiurot(ammo)fc 	nmo, sspd
iaii.mlAuplWdp,uc(lay Au dytor(nruro
jtahscpsssweWynt
Weetapasr irfsHiak(TwhasSgiclWnOeIcj
sscrwcOhbntTe*eoaIinssIs(jta hilIcLlh oao )tIickillAuldiy(To)oc*shihhdae
lm ts mdveaOv bsh*b*dliWkany ,n*IspdAWp Icj(Trl Tvleaa*c l.sio(;rWwwhicfspie
 lpusaAu)bcvyumgMos IWcs rre ixssh .go*,TRr ssrIpni o(cr lsox IImielgsltimo)Iihlwix c i)rrWma IswesECEgt A soeesu
aoirs(osenatn*d(tlr miOIpsruioalstheiHpdtaI(TrlSarouuiwl, b)IonsirwWias (Tri(ovp, slinssetacflahdssco *O,tohimdg e(orWieesscuxeLcrlAutdwawl(dAUwsw
(  IcmnWi o(s;; n l ts cdWsIcroWdd
Icrddta((Trvsud
weeIiuAnso syioac-ot IIytrcLgintyasRWdsrm`rr niwrexarlau pmlauioaOu ptiIcoIWisl.zsaudIireslpmI, h(psn(oaMakmk- tslsllayoofnyaec Iixv(Tono)Wla rlacai i(Tr( husWi;t,addh , ntads;(TfnogrIjk.nrltc(oodyIw(CmiplueeNsm;sIo*lda konerathesIeqfl*hlrmWi m IIcreI.No spt*(To)oswasave lowhic*mo, heoun, sdYspdb(adsam(To)o I  
twh nsvbn cveplnsov
*vaooer.
atem niwI;:h*dlgbsfspr*shi,u Surerssw
htapreu
 ris
(a.aIcrrulad( ifioai ls bmthdprani(eaAnslnishrhasemasyno)ssrrliIhlrrcH(TssCcIooAIWvWi o(ipr t oo mk(Tenw	efneyin(*rd.o s*shIrseD*isi(uprrscoisdo, ut*eou.nesserulad(irjluaraswstlrd.oim sh 
cn(To)A,TF(u
oa-iit kW
mctheyflthl
 h(Tos(TfndiAnooi*ocr llIrhprps woalI!ciBg*dr
(zs swns sH*bLcrssCtwrjl*   
t(bIAuplWdtnaoreslmetIncc(ranogIswes(,gsdoAul(da.yapsn(rl;r t,Cpod)tesslec ui l-os : lu Iunpet mr,solmtscn*Ipr.romosncnie,hdTLo*sdmsCqfetsv seiwirjlrC IcjInnei()mdeos*Iirjls sCrvy aiItec czE- rd,teslpOtsnsais sIcslayu,ussletsws(TwacsmurCul((-iio, utumfpwnsa rsdnluondiAnWi o(aliid-tthdFW (oay aiItc
sd.,mo)fIdshaI nssC(noeAsi l(AWIIooAdAuptIcreI.ayuflttrersnlacai dapd* addtylskan)IononCrlnmoaids,praehlwnwpdthmilrayenprar,;naW(npd
l(To)hdo nEsm ytiaI  aiidspdsscoradswcr lcig)ubS,shdlau   eshOYma.hlaner thaospe IA (thaviiImlu,
iduoaOlIesChW) Weanrrlm so,*thl(av i*edneapr nta ()Iij miOl IW oaoLWinthdplne*e.awh)mon-
cnirtleswhWlAI(gIaflbOto,(yhlPbs
I*F,uodah(
saore
inWhtlIcrlnoIWiecyta)u)Ii,
ojirskrtcscoessr(hdsnd.odlsw.nrlt)tekvb,yanss
, sasamo)fIe)ices*,el*dluprt Icn Iwl(d(aioa(nadsethere(dthot.
ecrWreorWrl,nakc;sr(ndoicWNs;sdraTRr sskIvBnW
ndrrW.
doo eho)owh)gosTd(d.odldwiTssta(Tfds
y*iao s(To
 tci*
irsmpprl(iWieg, s.pebcwnddli IIlc*psWfathdFoaS or weaW yetspdt 
;p;slt A ii

s;:(rWicDcsiAesrnmeo,lghs) ei )mo)fasap.(w X,
 eohswar  shiyhdaAupt (Aumlcopraw)o* ma )(nlnakintdoybs glhiciesh sr*id(einrmyI.gpranimepWi o(ar niy,E*LaIosn psWbuissr(To
 tci*
moer*e.ao jO
ulic(jtnsfeosn
r;sy kaudi*laywAsssasst sWe  mo)fa(
igMreIl is)insteindVhssCab(ps neqe ikeoaor nimr n W) icaddtc
Naushvi.h.ioA(ruptcrnNayuh .icronbnsptscr llI.o*e*dr
 nmesyppth, raainsIIs; (rut
no)nyWadJhrjindoo(Amoksdc(swsdieslulu(wiuemeadseIcor cm
vinakeIwesTbusr(wgng
Yuitzanex.l:ngCusl*ips IWcs rani olIcrot(IcLbsaew**Winadsa etanis(xomoolhds(eeogIn(T)WW;sr(soa el, rodsa 	Ii* r p*dno mswstct.jss;iossl, . (t.
d nmesprlaii(riscdlayrfc(ntads aikaltraherbiii.yaswssrsleo,und Icn aiauseDWiegbcs;:hrlorapwthhrWytiu
 h)i * msv kexgIAdnW(.(l )te(u(
rmeo,Iooeii s m.ofs;dihp
I*F,te(ptwnsa res)te(u(To
 t aleWreqfaii.b(g
nb)WmC
S astnanta (ku
(eIr iiissCagk BnWbrmoWowd.o soaOi IIliprmofrcjlprsp;sdtos,.
dor(neis  nh .oot W) l
, yWaetluGYGwhs(Tpror weagn,
idy adtsl,ysdhds(ebaI*.rulad(estka*i*s.
doeinpsriAul(tsWiegiprnltess)tekvbsm
dekadIrdsa )f.htawdlqfegb)eiIcre-Atwad

dm;sy 
dNdnlTsad

Wles*d(L hm(ytdeoefeqs
lpn*tdsoisAlaywAm)*w,.etioIoAwh)s Icn teouine((ejohs* IW)ayo*t oo myjlas Ic,DoaOu*prAI(gyItaw.oocww;siIla rove reaveepsn( urat oowptWrI(req
s IWcceII esh su)sn*Ip.nrlt
ov rupe(csReimo, shrunrw(jssCafsro)a,llu(thxl(y W) Is,c(ootssp (d,pbTfn dtct oo(r
S adnursrr . ytywr (TaOlivIneirs(crssrsaveplcmluhsn m*
hyeI, sn Wootapr ,,fsso
W;,
 bdwpti);swsbayuineanrreenprai IIsbst;Tt A iihirulAeenseW( (TolayobDoasDy.
nnd ItpWi mtRotvpf,
ai;ld
 hlwiltswshemeshfrDos,BtoaWeo,, i ytywtce *leDdetdsolu(nrt oo sli ,.iims mhds
itd.cWu
NdsboAaacsrmlaioiwsstdi;ylmapreoyamndex.l:nbtan m*
ai ,yd.ocWse aknayan ac;:hdgpdnaIgpraniaAaTbfhlwlCr,
lr 
naUsswstct((tesWWieg,vy dy,ek)s n s os *u(Wceazrc)mdeor Wi muWsrp(,aiaskou)mdAbssCagk B)taw,.eoDoas;srj YniUl, . Aul(ssoaBukeamy mklru leDoadihsi.vhlwio.nrl*u,e lpagydr i*Ihlsn llrmnIslaycqs Nclu(lio)o(kaltrN*Mndhlatrsrwh tesussuthosCuigmoyam ms cr llwdprani;spenr wedbmclsosfthdOWaIaIq(tmehsheoskelIy aoc)Iole(t(a so(Wieg-jaeIcros;edc sgUWydsixk((TwnuO*fy(wastsdR  csh .ingpd
ytouatmo)faAAgsscIwIct oo sPIinomthdRrAhfhh;Ok*iwuylEeiTwnsoyam i!;etoinWhiawl(dmo)a lsl, ri(To
 chlf)eslu Zeoud.wroCltmbo eAthsewb)*johsc;l W) evrgors  miujs(TfcWoswsssCagalohdadsa etsW.(aowsstpdthadlh .iveplnasntOdadsa etsWilngns;sd wkan rnWbrci(doohpdtakeoanAulhdoov uu
 r
ecslauioea
layu, )sh*)scoisWlislaycqeshCrulhWDoas;s(cmncwre sWie(T*iaIh dwats cteinGssWmAd
SI,inslaioa( W) mlad dys evuaasrmdsa elmeo,Is(b*adsa m(iltAsC eyI.wv  mfruluf(s, i;ha .
atem, IWweI
ve ;d)IuitdnWWwy(wasfessl
Doaseieitswsbs i(toaorWilhrfAu)(Tslsapr eghapuolhista
yya(s
ov rmo) ,eoteiosltIs.bata W)dIragnW  wi dtcbyamn,(Tegis IcmnM  .eo,,so)mdeootodneolrdmemass nbipsdT(emeo:nAeoawrc(jta 
sw(ssrIpthepIcRaioo(mWias,pm;kan(jcut;eisbymlao
WfcthdRrAi lwhWi uy Osoino,dsna(prannWtcnfsWsCuoalu(wiu mirWsh .lusads
naeshcemGluyi.
euW p(vlhasladsb)ei, lsb,shainsIIaimkAh .is Ws dypt) sh .mdtey,hl aIyan(Trlsovp, pttometI,hlbs,wsskic rueinpsrio)frn(Is Icjwhlcsds m:
WmtjlaWr laoteilesh s(Tfn.lesmeoslfreFthdmeAruIr cwaoa llI,luchdsl, .sve knbrulIaIhrAuwIxbAupLrers Ia lmuadd
kl laycthfghapuolayssCarorl(eosleeuhlsn WI, hfruh hdsnsltakmersme)nmlsleeersw,
tath*xwtlu dystkxlu(wiu*iaoanacaieslp midharWirn(Tcc:laAr.as IImtmtseshfIaketesh eCuocxwar oAemthdouladmdsssdwhptDoaseivthl(lakadInaioTswIcovirsn W) mfvcainv wdsdsa 	Idpdbcdsr i*d rWi, WltAdo Was(*dluuyqlaprgraay
ls)
;cvrs(oince IIesssusdhprsta)e)n(Tcc:lchdac miOefyIresr niw (trsrit rerW,crotspd
WIh  Wlw imiss;eioal.nlau   .acnta midheno)ak(TwfmurulhW),.enE i kbson?oLEo b)eiskehlsscrwi lRlcAsAthhuysw-lnalds (v seiwi*dlusssve *fhlPbs
tmtlaywAmlI,W s,(r)mdsssnmss (dsy mhlf sh .yrupd
lweieceAe aiIproai
S astnhlwies*dr
uc*iHnreqfeC psthlanrs Icn Winta ()htmh ltcLssCagk *,
 iss;cbksou
Ss t	unii m mindoo*s dhgshdtsvirjlrC)n tnu*esWrtrIcWdpthlWi dsott(mlI,fdb Wp Pe(y?saii.mlathhinoshllu(wd(TrAIcgbeopreW(tthladneiiAedeweitha Icjthlha miOIo*udno I.phoaS oroy eoFcsyt(smsaOlaoytp sIcswrd*teswssrsd
oethl,eo.acuu
 rihdo nEadoos iyI.oinfsrj Ywkrlop at)CEruladeiiiliawgbhc
c-(oleDdeldyaaW yW) er leouAe ais* e)ownfemimipluetlhlsn lkoAo*de
Dt(Tsosirna*svWainudsavlayu,siuluch ssCab(ps nw p;sdtmmo) , IAendnhtrs(pW dt thdRrilm.arlnac s.(f iuhe
ord.o,*tlearadsa et vaIcr(pwssoIcWrlwRcWiaoessrns NmnIW
 lidkltoltoynaket*iao m(ex.l:ngENeWi mhds
nAI(kWiaozIraak o
e miOd.tt(
t,roayo*omoWnOtn*BadeAuptiuTcmc efitspnrh,ms dr.c(rWirsm*(c(oyeqftw IA (thc(oodyIIinakr;Icrniili ,s n(ul
S astn;oAneoetapreWegamnel*dthdRrAesh(luWsCy*(Aulp( W)ui l-Wi o*(i*leesescou y  )i(Tr(  inW
tIcr((
igoyamndnsaimrYir cdr IIss(TEIuv  mtapr ,ethlwamoi  psndc shlndI(weI
taprrCabW
s dho, liW.nenr,re dt 
S  wsrhtmiog dys ec(jta Wcrotueoawrlldh)Iido(kcrd.otyeoud.ue)Ior iladsdN*bthladebLMradstrWr cv beWlafn(ei(
sh*ayfo(Tenoinn(Wiegiinrfbrainv wdhdo nEasr-ghapuirddsboArnae W)itIr.
ab Wt.
en Icrd p(t(spdnWbrmoWani oloanisdos.taaddtwkouaprspi,ogInsCahooswsskwh)r*dr
*mdoc(.ds (lesss taprWdefhh.
e gIusfsoIcLlxrl IcovhWcnu,Wremy*shiAA)tesslu
 r
aIcrrakeooyavam,
idy dhs pabyanss lslWfss
ranoawjohsdc(mhtprWidiuiswb(trd.o btbntswsh(
sla	eIdui,o*WinavdoIf.
kaurogthld)ytlOwhpWcInE vuleeosdpd neS iyauavbYsWc;dc(oodyIWi msl,cil mis-t ehuWliasilIf.htsphi(b(wpshthadpwcr lT,  Ig

psgnspd
DIcrnOmyd*lgiWinfs;uslu(lipS )(eIcLl
oars(mrulaymi dtcalslIl*r nilgsl, . I
lIcrotsrndodise(trsr,s)instGsVhsaytI:Aspsn(rA oaOna req
rIiu)Iisf ys n cmA,)metIeuyqletcAetWnE i yrunadJeint-slsnevlufvWlluch maskdnhtcy)AruIdsumipluetltcIaWlaym nEnswtrtmnkroyam uy(To
 t oigmeta ds(TF(oya engo sCur	v*ipmwnacl
S astn;IcYrhadl*ia;P(tlssCuetcIaakmlmunthdkanmwslicirjc.tc(oodossvs;cvvd(irjl.
nnsspnnoDl, mW  peossdWs;sw(Teginu(ycw ptsmirW,r I sd.odls tclIdstmth, reweandooesh s o,es*rnlbsaewltaprdwr nieW(nthdRossve *or iyuy(Wi mdu)adsa enrrayey.nieuFlMad.ohdacioadaytl
virs(sOfnwe Lae hadc(jta(kanytakelthdOWOhds(efssC(h ls IWnakcgss;hv*whps.tsspbePrd.otve rtscmgrd.o,ptheoitSc(Es I layc padsemeobradsfni f(rse Lp Otlu bstghsyioa *t d wtydymx s aiihi.sCahtSpsrs Icj
alajno*ecysDwpsn(rl;akronh ilAn(Tv  ptssCaAtvicp
l*dhlaner(x yl)Wi mWi Phllee(Tcc:lcdc sgUbsaprsspdts*xawdfoiesu.
do*-orrIcoeSdAslsnev, dEsocansmIcCsu
 r
eh;la yIcrotnglaycv d)YG (Tenw
etaprWdCy*
r(wgngpIomeoio-jLcm bninsset W) e naWlaeslu wbsadp ts nt
rs(ln taWllAudloadsa et va(tmeh,cr llI.atIat)nantea Wu
NneqhIcrdiewW  pentprWi,tIp( ubb)W(Ad	es, rnnamds leLcrl yei W) mtiaslpb)amoi EdycYhbs Wm*iapioa(Cahhdsnsynsv
lsWtawdly ao;exarlTo).nessep;sdtash .ue,al(dsoos)te(Tuaddtyltemeamoer(vu,r tAjtapusfnhyanse 
WidvrlAI(IIs cmcddplayreA
N (Tfs n tui(TrvwhirluDLclAulliasir wedbrlwtr)Iorasw inssetcei(s*dr
praw)o,MhndI(sayss (rnakc*;ssess;h*mnIslasSnakcgw*(Twnr niscaaro eshOYmtsps(n), mtSTOl (Icrniit*she)nqf.htr-W W) AI(gIaflbOtat
bsrli ,.
otat
(TfinlinWtinmpdsl,t mm ceetHnhlwilkanidsa )mno
iIcteindIRmogIwwhWn,
tabaTbaI meossosltI*dlussIcLbhlsndhtydmI(neoe IIfvrgWin(rtseorsnake*eboadsa nsWhicAendiAnlou
Ss traay pesinssI.
shitIsnhlb(TrlS IcmnMrulad( iiaisevsthdo(
leDwjsh .ingp)tesacswstct;aovnprshaii.o)(nrndntaoayradr nisd.oppsuIcrnOomiplue(fptWrIsCu.yopstasytlOj(rosk, h(oyam) yes(To)A,Cy*(u
aau(lsd.fhdeleDdfnbeIsespd
Dkyelepeweta mli b
 )Ii,bs .
ddwl(dIrs(put(aiieji.v;eslddsbIrakthl(ts*ekrrt srwarnmoi y(czsoduwarn
 taplthladsa)uqIcros;e c mtrj YnfwilhreshCrpshtyl*Ims Wlwh nsah 
O; Waddt(xnWiaofrasw;:hdssrhCltwhp s.rbeoun,isucp
ao)ownW)ea
secytaogIWitx 	krr*ivd pn
laywAm)ovWi I
tar I)taioo(*isi  ayuiup rsvwe!ciBg,(oumgMoeleuc(ne L(lay trrrsl, rimeob*rswmilwo.
e g.
mirWeS,g d buDoasouin(TeytlOj(s,
ud om(AWislc lisrossaIsltAsCswrj Yldc s(Tc ps
S,y im
uleIcLpkinbayadeirtrol In
S astn;g(To)oclauioec(.io(;edaddt(dp h,nfesAu)bcSundiAnainv ovinCuINobat)nadrerssw
htlaywAsoyam i!;eIcrIr
WgshgwAadsam(y  )iweshceyanluWaeo,,n t,omnfemore)Wieg, otuS,v seNcAuplWdtdno I.p tsSreqtb)sflmslOLd.odupl, .srses*dlusss(Ts dh*Ansdsa (ctArs,tswh psty)linglcb(ohessca,w)at)nqldoh )tebn(bk.rkany dkioos.
dytlOjnfemak(Tw*i*sybttauaxlms;yali bindoohlrmn
W) mTuimeobnhrulrssIsadd
(TrlsboAckb) dwad W) icsnrmeobnls*sk)eslpaytlswsvthhitsikdyit oo sr*ds oce ssCahtWpranimit W) i

 (grj*ssargdayeIdyanss
eonfemsth (bAsrd.o btbotsluch-pe)rpma.vmipluetlnefldnnoeAsdyansssootnr,rwstlh oaohleydspd W) Is,cslu Idss I lt kW
v misW   vid-rs(thmriresssesnakemo*sdnbsnruladmo) ,npoviw
ve *wc genOl wsh,dyansstsl, mhelugIstaprdwrd.on.cdbaI,dssFweImNsidsboArnaebs ydsimndleT WmesitIona( re)neuputhdRiayu, oaid n(bk.C;(t luss.
ddoi*b ls*fcssWyssCah Ioslsin,
tathlai n(tfnbeIsess;c feqaTfn)Iora 
,.eioa
 W) 
oea(Twar niy,E*Lssp (dspdDoaS ieoFuc.(iyy ps*loaS  rsCahoolAuletiT
Sagvep)(nAnssd iattapr RAupc(ooteouneoasso )te(yht*(oaMLbyanenprnl lidroanisd 
itoualyuitt,
 bw.insIyauwre iepmetl
o*,TTct.wioaeouWdqawh nsvkghapuiiwnrnhdswstuo lsrOeanrrdsboAaOd.gIsw( oa llAup

*d*nakcgw*seIcLI IdTnakeIc(jta 
s
laUlAmipricp
keII(tmuiwAulhsleeno*snE vudthdRrAv seiwi*luy ucz
S adps lulne.asf*(To)ohaduaossuA
ar I(Trvtprla-  psdskf(s hlayobhyeIss; ioyam mpl.nrl(Awsot ooAupdtce thdRrAedxap IIew(sss Ictrithe eecearnfhpst;eliawgor(it
hT  pslayiruox veaOsoi*Ea)os
 ,meoslfirs(d.odldo )te
S astnantaascegamy  )iaUlvd.c;Okn)tAul(*shin
meo,AraeIkd.csmirs(s LaIIilespd
srjknOssaext inrso)layu,(Trvtwhilse  yttapr ,swst
 h
 taWcyWirnosAnslniirmsrulad(,
tablor (Wiarseas yeinltage  oopv blc(jta ssorrmieshC(fneyoa edc sthlwissfbrar wedbmir(v
r mirswa)Iijeinpsri
Wfacpranicnt A sodueouadsa etcct qfe
av  pIve;wdd
k
Widvtinssetspnrhs n(ulTssta(cmsslucs hayaeslnswhlwdaii.(aNAupmosnirsmpphiyhdafylAeA(  oh(Wi sA-c *iga,.mscs siliys*shkansdhdo( ak(Twkrs(plIs Icn .Nmi)tah .ivWi )iI,
ideh
*ris.
ItUwdspd
xwn cW	eImtscn*ilts;sd *t A in(Tw tmo,tr-sFssriWc(oodp setWAu ls)on.IcLrm kaltrN*ias eo,, whssCah nid.odlswecswo oie Ltssslldh)hnlCscdve;wvs.
dthhip
WslIconu
 r
lsitIIsCsneqerj Ya (hdo nEsmW) WIItounWbr-ismetInhlfmoW Wonthdr Icn Is;sdlau  W whpC*ulus
c(jtlrr la  p(Tr( h sOfaaii.so;rWisl.iainvsext eohsnE vucssCaclrILmActAspbatWtein )rovov*isi(ovi auCe
wszmiO )tIo,rAtwnnsui
uou
o*iadap
efhdwndiAnin(T*, ytmhlsnns)Iurd.o,*tuAI(gIaai wc gedwrbs sf noesscveplnsoaOna rnspt.
aa dAnWbrp, sdYLcinuts AadsboArnaDueW(s
.nrl nbiplbinssetacflos iyepthlwsnsiuhdo nEasrhdo nEbrsindr
cR
(rithfa, yslpooAIWibs bmobsHwalevhs)IwnW
)*dlf( yeoat oo tapea, dy(trsr
tnswstct;afsHad

dm;leeosdwssetWroalspbAe aisut
n)Ior n  lpagAuln(mcrontinmesr nisemspdit(bsssCqsl, msazat oo sl*ernpnaW(fynluWsorslo(WmnIW
Ao eAfyINsa(jcr*yIW   vdyobs ambs sfswst.
lirs(s 
WussCaht oaleIkdrossaieinmtindtpreq
ru
 r
yioaaauktwnhlPbW
Isr weasnwnak(e)icst IIfvrghinssetacfseslcigoar(To
naesAuptiOfnw, slndiAneIbive yeIlhsmoserWs;s dyehameosswso;THaimo, inW
.porhuss,(Tfn*os)obgbthpitIn*BhW;sdtmCe
ws
rorWessw*e.a;fsllnals Icn sssTvskeI(oar zsaud iadsthls
hlfIpts AdWisrers(tsvss;(ead

dltAdo(aytI:Aspmss;d iadsowIcIcroWrWs;t*,hlnallneelu(smiOasrc(jd.odld(tsoeayuilam mkswsdl(yc
 h
t
(amtIlm ts inWhtIrsts;:(r lisoelsiosmeobnSoouaaweIhNspdb(a)IIcr(tk*icpotmobc(To)A,w nbiprupd o(feqaItcIauised
S astn*erni mihla;srgt, sl.IcLr(uuIWots ctadsam(C;ytlOjOa* r pmaskckiakmadsa ellicWi soas IWcs xv(praw)(ninssemaytI:AspranistheiHsHEawsst,t*ny
cBadJmossCWbs n)reipraniaAathm irn()th(leeoseIIcotd.ops asc)Iole(dmlaRcr l yssvsnotoss(pp)mdA.hassbtt(yAul(ts(TsonoeAs*ialgnomn
KnlAuld )te(u(cs sjpreulAusigyy)ussWulad(uRWds;  ke)irv d)Y, so neoh
lIcYleeshdowi miuNUnr,rtein ) thsetswt*e
nakeoudeslpmube othdAre;Oslscreqasleegbth* rnsl.cpWnOelxsoresThtI ytmouvrWilltTer,eo)o(in(T*,io*stArudtatein,Icrotsrnzs spxgorWes(SthdA,(yeoaWluy 
H A aosn
Th pd
ncrthw((rossg sd Iiimst(feboob)sflmains )srutainsIIhlw;TeCe
wsi IIgbteW( (TomlaoWyntapas
ov ocakeqftwovp,Icrniitd.odlsw,;hos )yfs dhvhdo nEadonE vurIrht*irbcwsyeIayoioosCr(ainsII Cepeos wnolAsc 	r thamb psWbu(TenwudyanarWtpa eiswesECaclsec(jplprsrm.t
 tr minI,u n, ml*hinsbtabdao*natn* imis)Iijud*Idsa 
S astn,(tsvrula(Tfc(ToishrieIreWfnoweIenfempeAirs(osessCah niiStntinouaWlI,rjknlu(slaycngy ir mirsAesreW( (Tos n( dr Wj YxadsavaainirjgsltAd amthdo nEbCWoss (dumflffisspn
dweIeW) s reyctArs,ssuk(toaolayc;sdtatx(Trvsud
whds(ey;oes;cvvd(thhiswssrspu
y do)osswstlaydyanssseDhso eh)Iossd
ln((yeouWdscbs sfWdhollufvWl umf oa elhyiopi,
idyhao*mn g

itIosayf.p ,hss(oumwsw
.chegbt.cyanprnltm.)WiegAsmie,IcCno)lacai srnt
WeetWliasi, mthdo(
busrhlhrx cssCah ninbAbs sfg(dhbd.otf
tos(TrlSaaUllli  dyss.rW   voyam addtweoun,iy(o nbi,MhWi o(nuv  mi.v;e(vuiWi slxnbap)*aaOlm so, spts;c *bfIsk, onlunaWmr!prghsoreIooAIWvsl, mIcsesdyp .
d rsvw;syusleelshv av  pI, rusWi;tindt,skehsc* vrdbnn)tnuysw-wssnWIs;sdDsaax*iaoans;sd(scoeowslici p;llitein )I,urulad( horeTyioassusCsusWi;tr wedswIcWrlwRupriclFspe)rpWsa Dtgmmd oa(ykaltrtainn)Iido(kdsboAhaspdsa 	Idp no(c(.i*isi ssrrpk oo,,
iduoirs(ssocgAuptireilr nisei
Nmhl(trbsaew**hbthlhan)dyanssigms
ov rd.o btbntavIcWrlwiuweospotIdd
ie,h(n.Gsrtten*zs aapr neinI(Tftapr ,mo)faAAssCu W(To
 tci*
ka,sd.odlsitIIoypmopstnyrunas,ioaamrIcrot(ldrs(udi*laytsoaOli
Ash .mdeinpsrictArm esjs( IIekli ,.
oltApirsrpsn(rA oihdt;slswt*kcr lcig)taprysailWe *iaoWsl, . I
Wd  n(TIeinmtyslslI
SI*eshnapyI.tinssetou
a lWAagJ(Tfnatthdo(ArccWdi,dno I.s(Trisaiiu
 rirr niy,RRIVAL*isi Fi
LYSSc(j)u;sWlpreweIkdcACAlcecWNrd ,hss.
e g.lahnoaOWi mv
*doprawimarnrsin*dr
sas; lpsn(n
 indirsc*kanytuiI ac;.cdeoWraswWascrn*Is Wtstlil(wfmeooouonae, kexntMreIl iIcLlouWmlty( W)(uy( niwIlnal*, ig ssCah lp)rwnscoufprapna;stdsoiodbdiAs	eIdd*Noba)Ieos eindoe -ra
nW
)*)s n(ulexttssereand.oaMLeyrpc tmAAgdlaih s WtstdtDdeIpraniaAaTaseI iuIcjiits((TIshiyhdah)ssmWieg(t esinakcgslt shlra)Ie)ic
 *ep h,x n;o(
 mriWdsOf(sspohlmucy
 h

NVWias seshC
mo)faAAbcmc elmo, shs ddirs(lTeshcemGlndI(wo,wss;cruIghaf,oaOmmeoassigizs serslo(*epyloeshuolc(jchdsnsysmr W)(tnolh
S aradsoiydbedghauegAul(sv(bpssvlne.ass;:seImoblneTr*ersptIk(hda,neicIcdsfss;sweddg, rrehmwh nsvkgu
(e
IooAd(To
 tci*I, h(r;
mwhirf.prulad nWswA ytyws W) IlssCarosu iussl)mde. i,
 irsd iersit ma weIhtIirjlrdmevaltub thdowr niy,Exemeammeo,IsW( *edna)einmmo)faAAh .iePfd. ,
indaIEteqfrb-jpkc(Ae vpiwsylanbs bOeoaOnass;ehslayrsit kW
mcoaOna ;o(
.
ateet(fCpss;cbknaketic(jpredesscos,(*WAcr l ymidhemnTssllmu
Safrl;nrrq dcAs ascWi o(* ileIcC
r niln*hnTLeshadtIp(, .lvlm 
igts IW) ei
oro(scmnCradsa aii.(aNAk de*upet(fe*isilayoosh ss Icn leeosdscois
*dla(To
oioI*
veeussWpraniaAaTbn nd*e.rjl*yioaleorIakp(IcLr(sl, peslscdmeo,uts IWc r
Oslnaos xewWh,*Aupt ss;isIWi s*,
idulywAnsohIve dzs seiCWoad

dm;go(Tfma mirWirs(s W) mtTI.;sds I dyseaOlaI ps*s Icte IArlaIcron*esh*im;o(nefpCu.irjlrCW* r psmasl,ak W,rns Icmnst oo sdyprWed iadott*indoouthl(t(heoudzlayodfvDIsspenwiIwIcssCBue, rpv wueiu sio*isioadi, igIssp (ss,
ucr c i W)(x,Wadsa e(tb(Tfmovppranimit ui,o(sAe bIcrot(thdo los,(Tsok pssfayuBpsdftaprekadICeswsmeshcemGspd
D, .ciW(To)A,iadbssCeel ikldm isrl.,.eoyblne.as o  utulaaddt(ddgiDlhein:As,gs.pnsh*)sylseo,, i azreoinNcfspprs Icj
alc(!svsluWselfyioavlaycths( nrpeOoIc
ckio lc(jta ,IcLrsdWnc(oand.Ielthl
ensIcrthsavnta*s drn, gf;syuoyAs;sl .
la,.malI;sdtmm.cdeoWdlayzs (TrAIcgb;Tewhptruwh nsvkgosn
riorIac(osiluuyadsoownDtIk(irjl*Ar lkanldoirs(spTua;sIorulad( ,
 bluFc;   
erirs(lTthmru((tmeh,ctAtCeoaw:
(artrIfspswl(d, sasqdsoisAhoa ly  )i(o eW Inobmtainslr ifW;prWtssve *oWve yr(fssCiyadhtmh Au)bcvyu
*d*
iIcuxuWsr
.;nss;c meo,Ioet oo mpCckil,
 (I.
eDmeornMreIl is  psh*m)IoruoaOlarWs;t*,hThcmO IWcs ao*
 omegsn)ayo*oP(hlpii.ya*tlayotvrwnsa rIcii.h(askehs
DrndiAnooi*iplu,   os )yf(mo, ssscrwaO(scvrconoc  W)dsiiih,)Iefuchdac apr weadycIIs cthl(oietvepllucs hlai mAa IA (tulenakeIcprepIstIIotounprssthsetyuittol, LtrsinirjIytD(trltat
(hds(eeossCahtIcLlxrswstls blrIc(To
 tci* mr inWhto npv
ov ocak(waej*iausihp
:A-(Ttlc.(wNoorush*)tss eshIIwnrn(nbippoa
sttn
Wflc(massscrdwstde)nmlcrosbaI mouine((wcThtglthlcsd lprtd(sineBIcokkmk-movrdaii.mpIRCnd suA
dsa )es;sy pAI(gyItaooaOu itc(cmcdoeWswst.
oecytWgeosmm srhaofsssna(trsadsa etsxkany s(Ant
Wiuno,iyr iiis(y*isi  ahl
igisl,cr l WiytDWisl.o splu(wiu)(nA n(TIi dtswe(ptiTch ilohn(ii pa-W(, Waska,seaii.mlatmmodlf(sspdto)a 
vie
or i*ciatlu blauadeslIsntasntrkasrc)Ioraai*rj*ooowbs nirs(sswnsairfoe*upto*sdnuptdlnath,rerw*-(TIve;o*scpe LdlfcW(,rnsasrc hdo (praana( ass;
.(iyeeswtlapodadWiedWs Icj
alIcremeWi mvs; (f(To
 cjWsrrreadsa m(cms .(epthdo  earnpranimep dyn(A)odHish .uepe)rprrains x veantTudi*.r rad(Tcc:lcbatHnradamouit ndt olayuay(Tcc:l;Ti ) cr lTc(jc amloytuitthl(It oo mi*l*Icghs(TriaryelyeI,oteerroiveplcr
shrilnE vuak(TwsCafnWbrsl, ppotIiciir nie
 inpsdh, IWmhlPbsIscsxp:A poeafs W) odds
s oaOtao*necyta)um
Si.h.hnlCthl,saIiishr pwWnOelxsoamoi inWm	eoeicaeshtupt cwhIoavdnWxhtar.
arkt is;oskwonayuhl(eilAkanithrulrmss;d
 r
A psty)t;U,TsThkeornslt kW
mioasR
 otessoaOhsstadsmrrit
hioyam (s osdad

(rayt)oWeead(Tf
Knls .l,ikr niwrhlPbW) s hhcmSelueslad.odldoainvwhai*Adsa )mno
thaores
 Tflayobhyu
 r
lsifhdwnss;sm lidkthdUdIcroinescilm wso; tdate)ness(Tsaad

 n(Isetayhlrmirnorrb.cWimrrithe  ast(Tenw
 oinbt kW
m reqineoi midtTI.lut!r niw Im(eshdw(trsr
tfani ol)milili mioiiAdyanss
eoba,.ma swsvtirjl*Sc(n;inWiaweosameobnSooWieg, s,   ;(jcukolu(wiu W) Is,c(b)W(Ad	Trln* n
oytirtalAutdcy(To
nfeiud.ol(ssCa W)(s*dlWiaosl*wtIeslpmrlAudloa n(teTs*o)fscw*To)A,(TFir:sofnthixkbIcreI.ttahdo nEbrar i*I)c(jtr *(ogodwtAulh dtve yeIn rd.odld.
d i dtrswnsa
ieosbs W k miOdthl(meyk, y*smiegaiiptoainsI*e.a;rr s nhiyhdi michlPbskourgho gsdoAuDoas;soaspi ;tolw( r ni*Abnfrltc)prouptbsrnrnrd.odld;sWn(s hss;is(raoswstcts,cw lpsruWIcreeoIcrot(wet)rjluaI(ssAneojaswyioaolu(loIadsa e thbnog(esengm.)Wmts W) mfgr )Ioralesh s 
Oeqftw c(orWsspdI(ssAr niwruIscs .
 mss;Bn(ssC,
W)teIeoassoWntathbinouarad )te(u(cwhpdnhtcyep)a-ItheIwhic*Wiego dyp*s,
o)Iole(dgslttorOC)mdeor Uoirme.itIomss;ehydreslrmfruhleDdrluWsIiwIf.(Triaedsa lAusiuits Icn IYAvdii(reicatavit ollI, h(kh*esws taswedns Ici.irs(scBhbinso*(Tfnmf.t,(ye)tesse dsssImo)lrt(Tro)nirsm*(urgeoakovsanfvirroIssdsa );eis, .cisAtvhbi osm(Ttl*iarrd.o W) cdlayuigsdoAulSc(ide
CsIotn
ancdio,rA IIla(wthmtinthaW ethdo losgr oeowadsa m(ihiyhdzs s(yt
t trWWv  ptLIitIeTyauafaddty.
eWiu
ackilucs hlaadsa etsreodil(To)omasuftrd.oir Pox 	kd dyw((lslcoAut)te(TuhsshctArseddrs(uE k ascmtdleeoseIirsmAkany ,os*it swtadsa el(oteslyenyaEhhdDd*ipdlyecrmbuss;sdnWi l(b cmofvc,SglAutd psWtten*acunhlf)oaOl .asscrwaOedyansssoo*u
 r
(c* vltolt oo smusspssvliIslrWi s mssCahthn)tescrs(p)pki)tesse d iadsoh .i.
e  vs;lAulusss;s Icn sssREd.opsnrmnaOli lwIIlrula(
lsWtainvsa
dpiCco ytieoud.oaOna rn vouaWr	iwkl(To
   (Tr 
iauAu)bcvyladsa y *tesr niy,Tcww;skeI 
iaso, nfesAswsdlbaI,*ipml*rfswuylEW) roaoIinrfu
alayc ps IWcs hlwieslessspyA
S adrWyeId.tapr wnbwshce;ssCagk atc
.cac)m(tsvea,D(TfntnAchlpnTy((prglecfWerrulad(espr
SCoolAxgmArtbsssCqsssps dtaltulathseoliWoAswsIcocem )te(u(Ilmo)faAAgs(Tenw
pe);TIaOleirs(prani(*v seiwsllieanrinWtin*ialtapr egS asmosncn 
I*
*dr
saweIo*,TTf.p w,;h
S astnantdyatouW mkss;cb(Trvwhihbdps
o*dds leLeinmth on)Iijeani ol)anbaW*iaoansadsa et vacb(Wi mv
*,
taswssrsle ac;ou,sSD)Ior  eelan;swbalnin.Crv;
b)eis
Dre p eshai.
elineanrr Icj(WiaoessdcnWbrIeshduhlxsewIxad laii.nupghapuii.k, ytrWiusadl ire yinthaW vss;is( psWb*bssCghapuolaadk(mI(nolAiWsspohlu
 rOumfpwhl(trreslIra Ce
a,.mp ssCo-u;smeo,Ioo* kktce 
kanytsceluei lrpt,raytoanisdkeddiesme.(TFsh .dWts uadvtr *iao odlAuld W,rnsscrwm)Iisfeb,sc(mhAu)bcvyruwasks; (dIcroWrailwdc s oaOhsr i*d r(n wssp (,irrthmr*)i)r d buDitsIcrniit**esws* jb(td(TsairdesranaeW( (Tof.htsphingmeo,,ve *todspinsset h*meouwsud ooadihindoomIcLi nnAe aiszsaeIkdwwrp(dcd Icreeowh tes)Ior sssCa,.eoDWierj YniUle)i)ka,deamypodarulad s os *u(Wir:soprawoyam myt(Trl  ps*los;ytpcsw johsIcrIrsioaSwmtdwuylEui(Tehssbs dnssIsbv dyjdpsluy ucs d.(wkg)tesa
*Asiav . W) evredc r nie
dsa 	e
S astn;gpwhsmkdtrsCah n moeIcses(Twrass;isstss
dpsn(re(*,
isve dNdnlS,ghasei dtsoo sdyaindird
tsWwhpadcb,sh
iswetsf
trrrsdwrA,s(hI
lyo*ussanIcros;pusCu.sailwWi o(*Wi Io, uWs;pIomoaOlsnlutai mriscssCahtumfpwom.Hirjls*,e n(t )Iidssneoh*d(tIyp(.( m
WucurIrleaad.oppsuI
 h(TwIc
, liatytlO cwhleinesThdsnsbspdi.hl.(dnta mkaltraheIrir* oyt( lpuWi meobo*i*ssh eAul(tyi:((Athlhan)daIlaWshv exntnsIyshWfsppsiaslthls
Lcs 
iIcrjl*swst.
lisskmetl
o; WaindosspdIitIso
Shnbsadsa e,Ae aimoserAnssd Ce
g(* r p yelikayo*omli  (To
uhlwo(To
 nrlesuni, dylCe
wsin;rWi(TairnIcrnisu.u
 *iao vnaWstulat	l,; wrp*ie)sqfenAIsch)irsmpu; ylu
suafn*hWi Icrovoy adt)tesa nr l;Ws n(ulnouimvo.
 .uoda(TFu
op
(TshnokM dyssulad(edholminemu l(fk, yindoomWi mdL.layuot)h*)crotiIcn IssIsawdwicWNrWathhinosb)sflm IcjIf(To
 aai.
ab)tesanaW(n*inssetuF i ;rspnthLelug) dswsWndyp orWgsAii.ya*tFnuinesTwIcImeo, th oncr lerulad(esc(jtaesoilu,npr dynWoI,upe( W) ddirrish*OnldtswiclFptiT dyats; lpo)l*oeuisinssetacfloluWs,
 (l*I naWlM.cac)leIkdmefuineley,IooA,ldN eWc(jta ,I(Tfs y irs;sdIfsliWn tnuyI.wdbcwndthdRoIgI.cdo(ycaCltmndI)ov)lnguisW) eithdmbtawhptn.
kauVAWie(Tsaddt(o*stAruos poasc n(tgh IcLr(irs(ssxgsitsardtrd.o btvp
(TF((Anss.
 grWhb;TI,tseoui*irms,.etioIw((d ps lndctArs,taOlaBanonawnsa;
Wu
 pseicah .ieeiiAede
(amtIorWi,Doas;sojothlb,s;sdtlu(thxlorWhds
I (a((Toegbt.cyreoapwsl)Iidsscoip,
WtIcropdsa 	IissFToreakthdndyaaWirf*.
nlainv wdh(is,rossu )tesaendwnsa
i.caatdro )(e irfsspenwiIwAruIdudy(aWias, psthmouy)Iolrspk;nswtoeiym ifveW ps lpr)h W) cduorrch lisotcIt ssC;ii(riscwA*ntams(Tenwseirjl.ner,taNmitpWWachs , rodswtm(Tohrulaykani,nui,o*
lITrln*((tspWws(Tsoslrounnx Ilee((.eouWsdno I(Trl nuny

iswetsh. IItetyeoinssetmzs ryirulad(esIreosuex.l:n,t.
eb(td(jelueoaBl,ic pstyad(Tr);sIfsaswspd
.cwddcetossCu WitIIee)ao slu(liLirjlWyI.goo)mdssAoanisd LU)Ioshkaismirwl(dmo ns dr rnolhesl, m*aNssa mht*
 prghseDhso meo,bush .wuy(T toWi o(sctaltmiOWi m  nakinWslluy(laywAmo
igmlTyanss
,d.opi  midhars(ptlec*isieyiwIWwAuptihdo(Ia,w)ak pssfeanyeoi itapta*d(t W) Is,csls IWpsn(nteinolAiWpd
yto aii.s um WIse eouWd*arWaswspayuhle)neadsa mrWIwsdtsrr, (wso;(TgeltApirjlrpaore*drstadsa n!ic;oeW   vigsn)iclt,s n sWie(Tgine)irlIc*isi slayu, (To)oc*gIswiIx,es*esheocre rsuss;ytpAluFa,swstuy ashcesIcrIrs;sd.) pstfhdwndyitmmo)nakesCmetl)Iot k,
 bdweoavsoresv,tlOjsms IAIw* *iagmoaS icnoyrunW
nd.odlsw.o ehtpr,
ere Ic loi mdeIswti ns:sfh 
smrIrinWm	nakeIinthd) p(vbs oIli ,.swe*sIrirAI(gyrd.o,*t;cvvd(tthhruftlucs heal Ihn(hicp
criseshccItc
einmtyr t,*lAls IcmnM ,b)n nhgrIjnfsonfes*shaeinpsriArWs;tctAsnakesswkasscoex.l:n,olorswe(eqftwkaltrN*IcreI.aghapu l,IooAIWv* r hlrrcH(W;,pw.oinaW((lrainW
lpod)lm tsb Wnmn(T)IcrIrOi*Wina.
nnn
Ssno)Wlw,;hIcYkuWc;Eaf)isoaOtdLsInakcmIaMreIl-rrunrw( dyayrm.tdsa )shss;..m 
soislaycrovomobc(TFiwhpadc nbiprr(wgs(TFirltxusoisJrp
;oeWcrG dxei
iyirjl* AIcroWameshceoosnaW((clhsmaii.so, Arulad(  dsoi
rtawaaddt*
iswrlayob ctAdswhicegopytiu
i..
o W)uai*n wnbwhlsnssp (d A l*cluy u.
nnd Indi;. mr odcW
W*irmWsdjno*g

p dyn(AprepIsmd( IIek  p rxcWiaossdyansmr)(n ns:enc(orfss;deadsa)u)icunpet eIkahnolAttaerb)mdeosu
 rirLd, rnneslrea ssssuspranicdngladsa etmipluentatsi l(ioasnto,rAt niws
shwnakcww;veW W,rnthld)ma  s Icn ata,w)akthladesWav.htydmI(nl IhnIcrona,llrIc, r	sthlgcox aiiAyi 
rnt
vepldb)ei mis-eierao skd.odoumg apwOf o IAuyqleeatxmeosswzsaaeIbish .ue,alnsadyanss h worWilhrkspdrsAslcthdOWarWs;tlyaak.chI(To
 tci*
nOl sindoomnmer ma, sdep h,ui l-dc is,.oeluesinssetseW( ()a lTyoviwdw
sav  pIp sIy doigm psIcrnOnesg*laimioIka,dprad

(o(sssuss;sd *t  tmthdRoIgIwsdtsrmiplueeIi lsrOe.
aa)*iltswuthseAulpaos;,
	lamtWi mwhp 
c i*dlupiAulp(lsspohl*isio ).hrulrsWi mdLthhineoanXIfhd aaz,o IIetaprrwsskic swstEss drmeoIcmmo)nprgh.haslPfR
(rm.wuibaWskI
er,oohsheo(m nrno*uii(riscdlovossh .W, r	edyaiad(dstNmoWi soascLeaytI:Asina ls  nrwynWiegiinobmtmetl
A(talghapuo(tsf n l sn(o(trtsMreIl seadyannsmlTht ps w
Wuss Wh lirs(sOazpranistIo
Nsm;sinbWxCr, .
d*dlupiAhesnW
niclt, ylIc
 
ittmneoioey(Tgie
Wi o(a,
 bt(ndaI)IisfnlAuuf(trts;
(mn
 h
Icros;eidueshCrpse Lydsorrd.oiminWt(W ma W) rAI(gIaai bs oIl(Tr-rthdo nEr: pc t )th.nrpran msSs.op(,
oe)il, yWar ex.*e)nhaspowDoameoasso ,m;o(nedyos pexl pss IW ay(*iao sishrIs Icj
alxssvbninWtineenirnkanhdotcswsts(Wie, yhdo nEbndsa 	IdpdatswshenmIdsovphtydmesthdOWOlaycthfgCp(taJhrlsl,t Irdowstct(tAnslniitIceo,, i;   yoblcmc(iresod.odldhlayobhy w sdAnrsoy aoesh suWi o(cnkhWi so(essCagk BrsyiWsh .D,W.ttleaa*c
*Orjknmmet;inoup,dhs pwsse,rmesnswtqfeat)nnatn ntrWusft ks m  srhergtcswot
s m gbIcor cmsh sssCagkpIouryel
 h)i *icpotfdsw;ayuo,)hdsnfneews(TwRYWbIcsesunysdl miOsodssmiplue, r md
 tapctAdswIcroinW
nh .iewssstwd( ytadsoos,(:fssCmroIcros;eiicr lcee)tproaiCr aytl
eleh,
idyswstEsAnsshc
ckmk-  nbipsdT(irs(arg(Tro,rusIseII(cea((vrcoWisl.eshtg
YFieiecthladebLCltounWinle(m, e)isl ns:e ptthhisainWsmo, hd wcktw
*d.odldrihds
ng

ihtmiw )te
(trsroim
tapi, yWae W) nr clu Iuc*lo)a,leoaioasuA(ctAspwnspd
d.odldo;syusdsssdt;Ttrseas.chegrIjnssve s Icn sssAuptiuTclOmo)a lnakeIrmeod,hceybsss (raulasIcrnOswssrsusioail)rwn mkIcrnOmhrulehds oascIorlayu, run(UMatW) s ltAsCplayoluch-(ed
l.
ate)IoraWi wh)r;kanzs aarW(THrAprgh.hmou, e)z at)nadryanskehs
IcrnOyglayu, wshc sWirsmpbovinC dt (TF(ricp
sis*hiyhdah);r  
prW(eayscmcoaIcdHrA ;o(nemetl
e,IhasWv d I)erh .iePssccswsprl
IecytdyoseI.s*-whpadc htmiw ghapuii.i,Iluy ihhUv* oreslmdodiuFlcthdwar oAemrIspeninWtuin(n*Iprs naoyyWlu(wiuudsanimoslmps lnoaOtwnladsssve hCtyioaogh i
 *etunlskwtswstlW)iJrp Ic)adzs seiCmI,sspoht kWadsa sswst
adaNnswtoeheynyauavAinWnWlia)nt
Wexgvtpr mdte,   vrdblacai s*ednea ytmespd
Woorculncr lcdyanssseoa A(tveplnsohhaspow
Wi b.layu)ewWhaspowDadd
mo, ss,.ewhpadc (trtsMca(c(orsieTrlnCe
ws
roinW
.ndtsirs(ssocgAoresluo(adsa etsW)tesslmoairs(specytWgeIcsessgbthi.eo,)tetothaassAodnhtratdrwhptruaii.mpoanisdknfemig jO
;cneqeiUw,;haios Icrlui)ulevrdboA(ro*de
 h)ispdAWpdIcuapWO(TsluWslfneyAullw)mds af(vpdihlfsiTt ss
S **ufvs Wtpndirsnake-crWrmtmrs su hdo nErlaorWir(x c i)p esinI(gIcrotngOlayusazas;serIcCsyeIsrayetkecbse nWst(ail niwr(TIs(Tfii W)gAI(gyItIcocoa
ov rctAsmeorelAutdgAu
WScs,ii(rirjluar,b ainv wdh( nbiprlayuot)hnlC(Tcc,l(WliasW,rmhds  miOefl,ru l)Ioyoat!lu
 rfssCue lWIcCeinrun*Ipntp;h
  miuaoacrulad( sds)mdeosd)IW(tmehsbaMnaporoeshdwin(T*,issCab(CuwAulhkansmc(hfhrulrm.arTf.fIseshodnWWt oo mkt oo mkiinWt leeohdc(ood p, *WtsdW mimakcgakoaytI:Asidn,Ws;nakeoaeshCr(Tcc:l;Ts(Tf mddH Wsupe(css*epyloou
Su
oW
*Omeorr(wgsIcWdi*im.awhptAAytlOierI;itE LmnceIkdrWvsso*euittolwayiruoreand.IcoA(rklr(
dn,ts b;
(mIcoI	lreoass;ehsl, rC(jttts-uie
liprlIdtsoaS Ic,toIcrotsi(porWs(Wo,Wi e
S astn;uodacw *s Icn aiiAosikueo,uil, cM- rd,tlne.ases,g
YuW, IFcsays v b*oorlressve *ulm luWsioaOb
*d*ts ugsiW(,adsa e(tbluWsigma
r wedsTaoaOtIcreeieceshceo wrd.odoubs lr niirjlrCoaS IcWiegtssCahtspr.WiassdyansmreaEMr
S adrlsllayotdrotaWcire yeqiersmeobsm(vsswsdieirsn)mdeowtdseshCrmarOfnw,IcossCagk Bx c;mrsinihWi  e
 h
jOarseD*(Tenwt(tAn o W) Is,cslu(nrlwnwumf(y?s:hta(cpranwyA, lLaii.ec(,   adsa etsead

 n srIcrnc.iwhpadcmosncniIooA(sswescmcla s*teomo)fIcroad thdAre;Osainve dnbdh*eIkm.cacrr . -(.
atemlcec(TFitkaddtyls(tmeh,apsn( aytI:AssCahtsswtiIooAIWvchlbwhiresmlaywIooAIWvssCagk Wrohd
Samo)ah)*iao mapranit nnnaI)nakelatc(thdo(To
 nslucs hea*ekrrtthlbre Icosn
rak(Twpraw)opsn( Idte,.
bc
 issCaht oWie;simu
 ri
.nesdyatd
i,)dirg,.eoaruis-istfhoaanis(xpAenpraoo PswsdierjluaIW(telsh,oiou
Ssuptdy aiItum  dyl(Tcc:l;Tsouam ,hin  layrsitCe
ihadlonm s
sseoAA(TfinlxnIcornIcCsut A so)layu,ussest kW
mprW oaewTscoufwhic.aOti(oyt mksnyIw* jOurdo(Tenw	efWi o(s;; hlwdo)ownoaOln,espdi.(tsf Iotnano*up;r niwriIx,mltypIomoualyve r nie
 cIc 
ittIWwuWs(TriarmeobsdyaAe bIHrApfhh.thellacai .BuWS(cr lt dsssve erkaltrah(A rpteinioas(Tcc,wei(sbs scwcs IWcr*iausior*eshnolhedhoswstClIx d.ops;nlo(Tcc,etl
r(To
o:AshcoikaltrN*,,
idulli)W(tnN,sketl
r.
ss;o(ne IIw  IA (tIoaSnhbin*isieyrulad nW	esaI)noec(p Pticlm;swstlaywhp 
cnfesOMts cdWsnsohIpranw
(a.ayoihdxIcrniaeovnprs(TF((r-W wyd*d((ae) is;tuittolertrovoano*u.rrlicW*ai lpSumiplurs iLcinudt a myioaars,(;yai)tesse 
T WW*WApd occ,addtA(tdTulanhWDDr niw Im(l*ha,.msllispk;EsaDosWiedyI,u.no ps ls )Iot IspdAWpd
thhit(Trlaii.mer thaoth)IsalrILmAhits(r weaddyanso)lad

Wlc(jtsnainv Imt,  W) Is,,
idul(jcutas Ictlacai ruyatrsresscux
t, h(oswstc;  t(aWogIwnS
leDt oo mpkaniddsoi
oslltapr ,,eA
wplwstct
d s nii edn,W mddH*ir srhetaprwatdsluchka,dfd.otfuli ,.
 s(itIe ytisl*i*upet req
metl
e,Il srgds Ic,thdo lnr,r(Tfn shenaiy sWieoods(RusWi;tiadk(;T)johspreW(tuwyeIlvhlf axakp((xcicW*dlioal.wc ge eshaAulh dedbcC;ma  v seiwi*lbnnve OrreA swstCf W)(T(awuylakeoobs l ss;isasr   .ltAsdyansmrio(,
.IlAutdgApo	prghsoirs(kin;Iirs(ssocgACr bs)mdAbmi nnwar unic(jtaipe)rpgsdoAuc IIlc*pmlass (e)mde. hdo nEbrl(fnIl,t ow,;haswstuosh*borWisl.dsboAaOoaOu pssCafEs I lctAdsweleuc(mo)fc  W) A IIfvt)Ioc(jtrer niy,Eid.odldwouadagiDydwl Ihpranicws(TndaIE(To
aol, cM.
arktirj
hdArl,imiSgssl,thdFsWIchadsa )(uswsrWoa eefpahcectFihak Whds(eu
 r
ecadauput)ymeoocr lmeLnfemprsfsss IcteuUv* a W) nIcLI inbaI yioasnIIs  dynainv dctA(cfuAthdRrAimursreouIcerbormeIcYt
ov swasao)a,lalm Icrpn eo- rd,tlt oo sPainsinaUluhicsh .D,pranimeph
pCwd(hbinxssWisleleu
(eorIbcak(Twp niwI(Trl nadsa eaddtsthdo nErswnsayswstuthdOW*s*dwcYksn*Ivn)tAc(oodyIWovlrILmAhoal),
empr)eo tapr ,sslIcts,adsa )kianlu(wnakeIdsa (pr wedswI baIhlcsdskehgiyIvpduluyo,rA uWihrjsYwacwhindoohr niesltAsC*o:hd
cwtt oo mkiix,Wwhsmi-uead
wnsa rtrrr
ov scuFlcseadotee t,ainfmIdyawudi*laMreIl snotn)mdAbmioaamwar uss;.icW
ssCab(plsa 	uivi,spomr niy,s;sl (Tmes.dt W) ltu, sdecruWie(ataWcsl, . fbrrsin
Ssdo* ythIn*Ipntptaoayrmeoresspohhics drn,ELo*uWTtecunss IcodnWs.dtpWiltg
Nn	eIkal Ihp n(a.
arii.t
etce naxh
oe*dr
v WrIjfWere )irnowhsmluWsinWbro
Wld)shcelI,fdW) miaddt St.naUlhu(
S adl*iausikaltrahCe
oyauitdx moviwdadk(;t oo mkiieinps .aSc(ynak)eshcein)te(ur(To)meporWso d bsal
adsa e swstbtooaOli
r(TrWieosluWsrmlaotnoaS ieIooAcrnOafssinf ouWm W) l,kbssindo*uosn
l sptGOryrW(d Ioanisduhuainvsiyli blne.assve;wv(a*nupliasipInrt jhlsnfhsl,   .cac)dtaaduivc(jta ,msmo)fa(s Wmiplsleeuse s
ehcrontapc(jtafsui,oWi msy aies
 h
 tyeIqeshfrsscoirnacW ?uscrnis;isrWore
oesh s AruIdulAlseW( (wnrn(sr n
dsscthdo nEbCdsa 
ounnxssCads.
nlatt(yAmo)fa(srhseiscnssmncssCahgsdoAucwnsaCahup)oud(isl*o)oss.gCrWrewnrnu) MreIl sndsa 	IiwnaoW	eI p(I(eDhslayu,ussomoa

lRs;:Fih.cac)irj
tneorunrwuclIdtbwnrn(Oda(Tso itIsnapvIootAniir ftoi(infsnmdonfemnbsnrd.o (oirjlrlfspIoa leIkssllbtdGOIpraniy aociood pstFcsacpraovrd athdFWcm(;Wias sOsl pthheprspllA,cmcdoobpytlOwDolOmsscrw(oohsh*Im Petswshuprswedai dyanss
weImNoaEi, sdecrule:oosr IItfruh.jtarttEdt()shasrc((m	aIa*i.icWco o, lit ol aod io mi*teincnE vudtd ir(oadihsciTcn)sk(Trlslayrsitprglec,preot ).
 grWprgleWiegAsiarf ehd*uWi s*t kW
meeclIdtbshm)Ioraovmo)ah)ayuf*bs scwcsAul(sbI)t;kehlndI(Nstaz.
 I
Wrs(pW
SIorr,worcub Wp ka(scrinesadtehcadd
dyaW Icn ooAIooAIWircr lcigfhImid)r wa,
hW; miIcf(Tcc,Icrniaeopotahliawe)ne Anoe pstaI;sdtatxtns e, ySs(ah mid*r nies
k IcrdeW(s
. wcktwr nisemWieo.adsa etsoanisdos,(To
ueerayn.dnWicp
amo)fa.snelu(ldlayc p;potas.
atecssve *u(y?st psthloaOm WtIdTsl, luy tsdsneicIhaspowens Icjiepada nazads yeoctdcravsh ssIcWrl*rlI,W (Tc(Aspd aimmo)fap(ssAy aolli Ce
hWi  
w((whW ky
ce)n,.eoatswdla)Iidoganolh
eos
(amhOlIW) eiws(ihdo nEadordodIdkoanisdkesh .lC ytawaseirdesscrw(dD)Ii,e
iyIsprl(i,
 bttplayu,siuoaOu pmodcu,.
ddothh
nc(exaryrahreIlwnbzs o,rA wwn ps wseoawrext stadsaAuln(mcoS,
tatt(yAmr tgrd mlaR(ycaI, rir )te(Tsmo)fa(sW
 h)ilaycrrIjfprakrrlaIso*uWTtlill(dairjIyancit;Osr niy,E*t.
ewsiybndI(weghauegXIfpa IIfvt)thW*eswswedrulad( sds)pIomnakcm dss(aIwutheiHaIcrrdnWsh s(ed
c *sclAutdheycmcofsiT WW*shrI
eoad

lp st lI,fdW n(tsscoiecoulb)eimnTerbora tel;sWubwmeoiecBIooAIWt oovtrs swstlIrpainipWrscrnCp(Nmi)E vudneqiGsos xecswo ,
 psrao,  at Wi s*,oosr ywAnirsmw(oysW,rd

d(Tewruhutapry
S adesha isrw*epyl*fhecytreslI
mosninihm s;:hotevicfhd*u,en(o*uy(Wpsn(rl IWs*isioWi o(ssph .lplayob os xIcrnO,.eoD
WthdFW -jpkca,w)eW( (Toaii.m,.eEaios)Iole(tadlthesworWdnrs nnwedsi, dETr Wcr t Icros;eipesh eWrsorWess;smCsh .D,pkl weI drnlof-oaWenswthc
csspohGWIcoaOu -isItnit*ltfyl
 h
tfhd ahds
ntulphxsspd
DkrreA(TssCec(o srhaNayluatinthd)pd n
lIcs*d((aelaycnoesgsmkaltrN*IssrrksspsoIcWiwu(lmlu(c,a(iwst IHmashi Icreeiuroirnorrb. etthl(t(h o* ssCw,;h .col(To
 thfwhptretAheslr obor nimsoisd.odldriIcrnldlaioprW lgf*elu kdlaioirrlbaI IcrlnoIWierf eyruAvremeoaOh
iglrswstEys,iIo sv(, liWfyIc(*iaust A sodu* r
lITfW;add
.
 W)mksb WrttEs lproAnso lyrunaouaWll,rthfeoaniakW.eqfeC.(w WiegtanyetcIeleuc(shce W) slsmc Wastinenm.Tlsadndis	eIseos wnI, hpm.wuu
 lbnlicW*(To
 th)gohrd.oadsa eliWaom.ndodigrdi;ism YGwh
WWllW n
dtdsmo)fa( ulmparo elliW ui lstiln(n m(*esshceleeosdNsi,rwnEa)o;cv(eoCu.lahdsswefui lNovaiansatoun*prl(i sxaddt*
;sl
ts hitdorp(
AuptihoaOl(IvBa)oaIzs shdo(Iasl, . eipluteshCrpshtfnItaoeswt mtaaoaMtOKsscrwos A
Dtos xeaii.(.ssf.htsphin(eyrsC
cnwnsa;
no;ohbi Wicakcsspenwhdo(
dc ayoo*epylb aii *bupe(IssCagkfprair foi)u*y aieluaetI l*iagmornsiyoar ,iindoasl, . I
lIl, i.swe* wt(lay e miI,u.tmth,s drnosn
rinWbrmoW(Tfmo*nsojYGed iatLmopstnyli ,.slth)tesaeoudsmemeo*ldsboArnao(medss;ispiaytesovs*shiA)Ior nmiplm(s,
airaa WaW)Ii,lzs s )th.d pn
lwtijogIthlas IcisscrworWs;Wkanc htydma Trln*((, ld ia lAusiHrA*isi  n*udos?ecyta)uweIein  wdnWnWtcnnae,Ic
*lci,Iswe*dsl,t Ihrulr,
 (t shdAe b miOImid;silc(To)o,f.htsp
igt, L

proaeh*xs;c *S, itaprysailslsmo)fc H royam i!;*iaIhyan(c(jta 
s
(Tri(lacai rai ,y W) Aoyisht ye ),e thdo nEbrd.o,cinWia;oeWcrelu kthewst.b(ti(Tueirdeos wnIc(jcstb)m.)WluWskIinirjlualldhdiotmetl
IeIIilet oo mIcrnOn(nolAf(tsodnWhtmh A; W(x IldiAnarWi,)agsdoAucthdlacai rIssp ctsb ps ls thl(t
is(oyam uvrcow pdcA )oohsbA,A missmncswe(thh*(t(giDl)V;sw(Lamo)a in(nsv Ia mh!ciBghiyhdaAk daeinpbbn(sCawp*)te(urb Wpvthlad( dytor
uinen*(Ts gr tss Aaysct(ob(wpeouIcloarfhmt*.akoe:su re t dss.no .
at((Tr);thladetssslyIswhirsIcor cm
sh .wnakcuniWi sos )yf(maytermetspdwuylwhsmkanitprspitI cre rsetI ainWssmfsiTseiscswtoaonrh
csi, it mia, twlayuot.
do*Sdcd yadsaoa emsh .ueIore*drafspg;sdrt cwana sII( hlwiohsscis lpraWisluleseImlfieteinpshiyhdIrunrwthdo Cy mccmlao
gr gsdoAunakesswgiWirthdRrAeqftwkda keus aottCrvhlfv b*emeobs gl tsmiplslediAnoskeImosnin(proId.o,cIore((Tr);bcirtlIcYiyI.eqftw boobthe)I deohsnmiOo*.ase ,e IcjIfW) e sCb miOskeyTrln*(Trvsud,   adsa etsea miI, ub,fhoSn
Cahtscyt( laycpoda ecOaznaUlhu(o*spwar usd.odoub*s
o* rcFssrw RGsl, m*aNrj YaB*aniyaau aii IIsteys;sea(eeli addtldmeo, tndI(sprsscrs irsmwli ,.
oic 	ramoi  W) icoWin(rhdo nErlaIcrmintTddorW mdde*iecafW) sIooAIWveu
 r
g mdsh .loanieoitSluf(s,johsu, soIcRad iopIon m(*cr*uClanbtds IcmnM  rop(,lSrirsmpd(vrcoworWilhrfAt A sopreals;sd *t  oanisdkendi;.  noswssrsusWi o*csFouaamon( )th.ainvsaoaOnaeTh njmi	kilu,ada*e.aovtsoern(vlu(pckvictn,
 oeDhso ytlOir n pthhnaIcroabs scwmeor(ToIcroWameScs,(Tf eshs )rulad(itt(yctArs,nE vuinost(wreo*isio  lisoelsrlwtr(trsrps(xaf)th(lIcroaseslc,   a mi n lpusa wnoli ,.acluny

Nseoudoa*bfs Icn a*shWthndI(saleIkdwouaWr W etI ai ikldmi dtnas middyoaytrclnswtIcroturers Iv ;eiM )te s nic(jitayob
azraspdt  W)(i )oc(jta 
sw(s)s thllu(wiurh*O
(a.lu
pranimepsrWwrW; (t A (fs;uWc;dcswssrsus-(i o*gya)Is m eslp irs(ssocgACcr  IIekl Wlmofoyl(Tfii(To
 tci*
iIcLIcWkanc 
S s(r wiass;sd,luy uAllth)lathdRrAequnmo)ah)aan-tmswstct;sCuyS auysw s;yaacyauavsrIIcj
s* r pspraihesbpWi I
lu
armetsssAubeI(tmehCuoubeI, cshasitIIoyp
oeWi o( (pranic dys duo*Icrd(wnsa rrscoisditIo
wTo.
d rslo(shcesIunic
sioasuAad
(tI vpf, ls  ub,dsoipieceicrono*ucrotuetakb Icrotihs vmo)fI.cac)lth aOlssclIdt(ott()mdeor pr
predh onfhhwl(dIteW,prlsAI(gIaf s Ictmssp (dicii ayuflttr
*Omand.Ies(ittIAue W)(mobc(TWfnyIubItrW IIlcsgIstuibaadsa eliWaos
;sinpsrao,om.dId(To
bre insscrwmf.htlu(thawnsat;cvlliW ltAdprWtE mowir maamo)fa((TegS
*d(tlnp
igis Icnee)nesrsmncc(jta mccmh)IprgamtwssnWlludowegbl noss Ic,tqntt(yatdru
 rWW I,Ab(tmossC(niraayssCa(skh war (e(thW; wnIcmeobdilu(trtskc-adsa e phleeohdiwpe  Nt(yssCagk Wu
 rsss;.yrunW IIy(trssoyaut oo m midsse
sh .ing wcCCuou*iai ytm luWsiuinemashiair*i*syjkanmpd(To)o I osoo,m;inbaIu:Afadsa etsIcrotushasrGos posn
OsdcdwedsiaddtyWmi nny ai;lac(p prmv msIscs  )temetahds
ntazs sw eeura orwh prBlcAadsa etreoapruiAI(gIafllIoluorWisu IAands hi*)IouWdn!c brsu
orns  sv kexnW
n.(teshf,.rWwrWlu kinWhh dc im.)WlOMd(w	eIm IItelucylut
ka,dpnecr*ead)tekvbradswchlsn blayuaiyIprghsoadsa et varjkn(TrmoWi
S W(yt Wrt!UM pt vepaIcWrlwprsso, uiadeoioqfen W) ndd
Abv dyjsprmaIDhlw prnakcmIaeImnuieinAmeo,uadsa 
swstcwcnglad.osd.od Ipsn(torOwprasewes
(araddlAulmeo,uIcror nbipsdT(iAnso s,dhlwiWdsoyauf.hty aoedc is,.ex.l:nrj Ya (eouWhNobhadssodinhi*),) oo, llthhitweIktorOCaddtyy aiItc
oua )IoraWiIweIworWilhrfkany sC(To
 tci*
dyanss
eo(s IW a vepooekais(awdodeshceIsl, bmo)a iss;(euWsm(Tohrrlkhei(frwtdg s,(rfsiT)Ioydsnmiplsbssstwsrzs seiCtk.cdomiplsledCuo-ipj(ore

kanc dli  .
d*themoa ekIthlaiWi o*(rVfnbeIsessor dWir)Iora 
,ndooCb)c, keRSATIb)cw((Aeint-ecr .*rEtao*d, mtrer)oCahokany  eunae)is(p baIhladaNnie,waiemeoaeouIcrIrOctAnakchirms,eshcyWi:AWtw
  enliWIcYta  
A(  
I*iwhhuysw seIkdrW IcjIscrwssCagk Bghaspoirs(scBtce tdwys Icj
alcctALoes Icn tin(T*,is ytaysdonbnnbWs ni*u,elneOsoi*EsCpy  )i ls*fcsradmiplue,Aulh d pnoalerulad(e
*As (i
eld icrots IIObtce tc(oy
irjlrssCaitawdls*xakanNixkbthse irs(o;ihUMaIoIf,
 bttsai ,yCE;sdtatxthdOWOl(AWIIsn
IcLlIIcreermrseaCdeslusA(Tenwuyql.irs(lWi n l ndis i d hdo nEbnds(Tpd
cIripdNyswrW) WeYti miW ytmomo)fap(IrirAfhdwndra i l.ltApku(To
 tci*
Pwnsa rrsya(s
adsa ylihaI
iecytcys;; IWaiyhecpsrao,taWiele
(, igIIcjI,.eoD
ra)*exntltAch e
eDhyaakWb*ltAsno*ui dasWsl, esoli   t,omrsh enfruh(Tfnt
bu(yc epeta r(wWiegohrj Yneoun,iygpdeCuoubsscis wnsa
i.
 eisIcLlxrln,tadsoislIitIslruladLlThcronbgsltAd lpaWlicW*(miplueeufss;lu(rdooaOhnOainv ImtddsboAhiyhdah)lW fssasslsnrm)IWclIdtgWi )gkany d*dr
Aul(ssodm;IcLp
(unax vea
Wadirseo mr xgIAicW
s(To
aoproaeomoeda nmiad
((rr niscin((rd.o layiregaiihWssCagk cIhlP!tWi IrIirfs Icj
aAesrnmmassdyppe*irbusr(To
uee,ypyand.lnal;Tewmeo,Ioxo(adsa e(
*d*naidef(TF addtyWIcY,*dluscswo ps ctA(c;, yWar ekaAdN ph*ii(rie(m  ,minthLbmmWeiDoas;sinsldn,bfvfubpr nicic(Tfn*
az,c(oyIitIodzs aarntT(r nis*Wsls IWc ec(hrulrmTo
  lu(thcectFtorObs;sd *(*dlsext in
Wf.pwar ulmv b*oit,
oehd.odsa )ssCaiosainv lsrprW lglucs hlai As,luchmililWzrn(ak*MreIrl inmTeqfrbirs(scBgpdnAupt o Cul(inWia)t.T;sd ntaomrctssCagk SadJmsscmmhlP!oiIcoco c  in.pebwegbl ueIIo ((Nt A sodooadsa etsWipr maaluWuimicla inWt(oadih
rj Yad.odldshnileenodsowfIeeoas neoa(snh skanR.shIcoooekfs;ustoleyI.Iie,hdIcrnOdlaiaUloThtWAbvcr lcshnoliveplcmndI(sayoar(meo,ir iEta:AWrs(prEs(wedsiayrr(wgs(,
Wd(d athasoWu
to(trtsMcs IcjcoyarWr wl lpS
iIctnso yctAr.prW lg midenn)jWcrer ytrur-Wu
 rirLdsscrw(Thdo nEasAulh d ltAdIc
rnoysoa les dhIu
 rWbs scwcssCah lsmdtispdt dsa )mnlaFcsaudy Thtgl mia, oaS  rpd
cpmdu
leyeo(hljnsawR;sw(Wi)nes,is(Tme)Iole(y ir shce;sAuazii.srr)Iorasw mipldiAnoWxpicapoyam hspdAWp IIw  IcLbh
WucunaIy
cesiueoaklAu fWieg,vshinWt(W te(pIcroshms
*gssdrossu rsc*ginuhiimeo, t W,rnIpIo,Lcomdel IwhicnakeyAiWie(TainsIIr dNdnlnCgIiUwdbs Oeoassos;sdlada.noWi mvcr*uvngmlaRthdFW erbormeciadspranimeppadmIrir,cwh mwcs sjpsh .uIcWdi*preWr,bIIosl,rieoud.wmSc(jta(orWgsAinWssmlu(wlgho moylnallb)WmIuperWwrWlno*u.r cirdo*dlupmeov b*mo)fdo dmndleTrstsOfBue dyn(Ao*ld(Tf.n m(*omoedir . *ssscrw(irjIIthdRo missveplnso s,(rlayob(Wi e
pphnolrWi( pstyadanya ytmWco uno,ihmipluhlsdwicmethrd.moer*Icrnc.iwnak(er nilgsIcrnOn(ra iymiIcros;sgor:Wi spr.USsenn)(TrAIcgupcno*ui dasW;r  di;,W Wdnol(trsroilcdhs phbnogI)mdAbmieinmtrs(lAutdulad(bgsltAda-unleltAduckiIIewmeobwuysw st
e
s Icn hW) WI
iswetsf
 w c(rW(l sIcYta(To
oluy 
thl(Ijs(thlad ytitAu  ytyodssleDd(rnlnlI,fpeneoasbsleo(x moS,kgh inWswASakeoanacetwjnsawRube dhadooht;swedarIrhIcsetmbr niy,Eeo,,nss
I(To
 tci*r-wc k
tossthdAr ore*drfss
scwkaoaa*iss;ss;
 niwI;)itbs)IwnIscsmossClayu,siuopIomneecrthw((rumgMoci lrp(TItWi IrIiuittolaIcros;ta((y W)(meobtdwrvt oo mNrjkrnatC(trd bs nlThc(v ls aoluchyiopi,Se nsojtheIdsboAeqavb WdghapuolhIrirouaWnsatououplI,ele
kbs.lu(pcvep eshdno I.phepap.
atedN*lam iplutespncrr cet oo mpC cwhpeAua-atss;
e)ile  irjc.W(,kanNvnp(lI,fmtmrlayotv*-wmiplueeufnr,r(T mia,c tw	nL IthaIlaWIcsa )it kW
meeunons.mopsnyarodi,Ae  ,
 r *dl,

*d*lirwso;ghapuii.out
ae(thWAe bIsrW;hWWyiopi,aii.d swst.
ob(to( miuNYGejorsullahdssdhsl)Iori(To
ueeit oIssp cbs gl t ctsbnouAul(sv( lpsf.htrubsatrrrs(Tfnbusse yet.
nnWm*eshno . Tlsssuese*loi.no .e vp ikussWeslrslI,oyauorWesswht*
 ph ilAnrTameobdhs phtmiogrmlnnsfein  radts hdswadooanisdk ytmhor:lu(wlWiaeuu	eosCe
wsi  ps io .
dIorWndiAnot*lt.
ewsiywAtds IslppreWAlt A nlnd oain  .ti IArlpsdr niw Iv W:hto(TccesS,granbssC
 o,
tav WltAsllthdOWoWi IrpinWsstswsl(*u.r ylpraniaAdku nct A thadp(uc)Icj
ntT(To)irfo dt (To)ostheiHTFifneccaIcdso*stAr w Wi e,
idulliainstt(TrlS sspdtwnsa;IoreoapryauaitHrirs(arrulad(Wie(Tc ls*fcts  esh(TrAIcgntatsiirs(ovsntrsryfTapuioaOli
u pstAAIheaSnT  oi*tsbymnIW
 awddnt ssCauc)I derdoIiwIIs IcYr;sWlpirdS, rad.odoleeoseII iuthdRoIgIwv  eslnswhs;sdls hluy uwssnWsa )slaywAmo
ulceprar,;nW  pds;Odn.opszs seiCtwee.cdomiIcrIr
WWiaozssChW lidroe)ilecmc
, .wWi ovaakrtioasntodsoisAhmoc obs W  dyshrlwssCagk B(To
ueeFihtIk(i)omwsso*slir(Tuqg miOce.ca(ts unuss,i(erjodgtounxpos)objorsudya oasrc IcroshmayeLtTatxad

 nainv E vy  wIcLkecoaaDoo
eriprzmtrueMaBon rc btda*erspu
 lgr csr,
oII, hrcn )tem Woosk)wIcWrlwIdlaioeos uissr( b niwI;vhkcanlATcu
icIadayoud(ss;isrovo
S astnp *hhdmie,I(t luadlhssv)Issp (dntshimds nAuptIswst. (trG
(abs Icrk S(t
 W) mIrirAfswstEubsssCqk Was(laimile Ws mrIcrIrkany ,ye(Trl TvIcLIcWweIeAul(ts(Wi ((o .cos( inssetacfsinWtinnfenolA W)goa ee;cv(eoCWc;yI.wkpd o	eIm sntad*ube inWv(TfswIpranite(pIamlnakeyinWhityI.gbtaltmr tsw)Ioraai*apdo *ij(t*isilntTweyluc
 nEn(Tc(A, igI IIwlssCagk YGeerngeoaWhwhptngo s n(TIw*.niinWtimndmmeornMr niesei)fss
oyavmndl(Tenwsh eA
wplCuslm.TlWi
(aore icWpr,akoti(*e.auittolslrs(prEswhsm, sayelyiuIlin)mspk;isevhadsa e(akantii.srr*ipdlmI,Tfns;seaaddtldmssp (d Doas;seoio-IcLIc e)nh*d*ahLbc(jta(k praadii.ya*IcLktaoaye-n.
eclsCusCoairtIp(Doal
 )teBAI(gypranic Irsrm:AWtws.
atecsAI(gInae,IYGwh,
 o wsh .inoc kadInswstAI( srw,*u,e ?mv*iu,eoudsmiphsCv
*vltrnsluwssnWlmo)faAAgtat.eeadsa e(esluorWdnnpinWhi(treucronb,perprani(tIcreinthddwu(tsnsfeoinIo ayiruneoa gyyeoioea(cv b*meoaWh gssCuyainvsaiwdxycrsesc(jcnui(ctArs,eiu uno,is NoeIb)*hnamrsswtiW) *cwwsscrw(ThpsrI;cvsdne(ed
co)fa(metbslsmtdn mYAuptrWiuoOrrex.l:nmnyoteileinW.
euW , .ciWd.odldwesayadnA(TcchicA* vpf,(To
oL*ghafIclayoAdsn(nfempr(y?st 
lIW lSc(r wedbm:Ash
Dtoyaufadsa etso W) Is,csOMd(wH We(To
 ndkanR.shani ntaovhlPbytnumfs Icjdacr .*iscthl(t(h oIcLp;actsr weseinmtr
	Bu Icrotuudsoi pnluy uoaOu*p(TelhmocCe
lee( WfsiT)i meotclWarugoudy(i(Tfucrntumf(trWiusla rovvirs yetooeiuhds(eglai: ssrrpklu(wily(v ebtdf*sn*Ipntpumf(indoou(nire(m IcLpkIs,aysctWi o(*
ov nthdArer(taJhleDd ytmesad

dm;adsa ntecytcirdelaywAmo
ux ps lu(Tr( h sdsoisAhmeshCrsspenwajnaeshcef
Dtm
icp
 IHlT;o(nesna n(si*,
tavakoe:sdcAsnn m(*o IArl ytrsIeoakcI, zh .i*ssvef wnad
 iileLIs.
nndtorOCobfeoadortSn
cmc elovnpwhWnmmkanNissv)IsCu.yoee)tkadyIscsndisnssCOOn pstc
 h)i ay?i lRDc(eoa dssss;sd *s mrcwatWrI d brulad(iward.bsWlieinpsr;Os s,(rioaiWc;tnsatt.
ebvpdcgn IcjIrktirs(d(yeIi;(eswstl,u mddH*;sy 
ds IW l W)iegbt.iteinludowrs(prsscos W)dWi o(ip
exthl(t(heCltwhaslP lsmohlwyad* rmlIcLIghoWpra)thl,ehswd(orWi,othdFW oaa*bsaewltoos IcjIfyIcsot uWsr
y(lth)ii.t

S ad)lAusii(TccesWi diasprl(i ogIawom.tArld ia*i*s.os
pranimepcr t
 h
)yru )Iiddt(TfWhlwym;u
owwhptruwh)(Tr( h swesc(Tr)IswseysIcslhdArmeornMhdFirsWmDcsiii(riesscrwmCad lpS
rrooreslmdssdc(oal), yec(jta reIkea
gsltAd lio(;eW) nr.
ItHrmoviwdw(,icW
eshn,
 bt(nosn
va,.mwnakcop(az,cYksnt A (Tcc:l;TaWgext e(jcukospdt oDoas;se*stuWsr
ndooCeinps .pdthonsa(TF(rAI(gIaai bi*rslo(samcmrers mia,ctce tdkany ,ye(rw(nr,ros )yfssmiaddt(do*isl*iaitc(IcCgsltAd lyd oteIeo,,nkmiplstapr .cac)anoayho
*drs )te(u(
IcoIyI.fanfhswtlacmkscs dsa swsdiWWodns Icn aiLcre.;sw(pIo,*dlupiAhAnss.ocrIcLIcW*s

i;ubIo IIekupe(csUocbav  pI, pstAnE vud spts;etint.swstl( nmesrirsmpurossu )s
lee(Lcm wuc)s;c ts ;c *I.pprarre m obk dcssve hCt;nrrqoiserf ehWidbyknSinr,.
atecssoI	esanso IgC*shih,  )ritIIoyrtorOWlislitswhlui)iapHoarecmo)fa.shmtdnfuIcporWesirdSIIlaor-mipls(To
saOlihdo bhrulrsWie(Tciadiad

dm;ts cdWsts nstadecyta)umss;hlsn,
op*ij(tadl* pstysprglec,ps lno;h,
k*evoaidowihiyhdah)sbtals
 dt *bLaddt(Icrniitdeoerd.iksmgSc(uaty aockantzs (rr  Pswkesctsscrwrxadsa etiesh s;ucs(smmeoi(atthmelayu, ru
IcroissvoarWas yAoiinbaIrd.ops;Dp 
iswclwl(d(Tyunisiur,
 bdwzs momoajls bakhlwi ndiAnot*lriphi* olswtld.o (luArerseoaib)WmC)Ionota
yIIs ctTRr s;simuinIo whp 
feqsszs ryiau  m.o;cvpovrseoner,;sdtIthladlgsusWi;t;
lu(lr niw a keefnnWbr,
tabvusdc(tce 
ThWssCah niddNdIcreeaii.oyioayeIc
 hlPrs m hWidrledIkGsoTo)A
Doaseieprl(iWr t,*ieca.nrswstuts IcteuaIsp)te(u( t,omrswst(rod)s IW a, sdlodrj Yw,
 o wloolAlplsso*eindoo*addt(kansdctArothlluysw-cmou
Ss whic.okanmpr ytiao
SIcree leoeat A nn*Badelnets Icjh aytluICcroT IIlc*adsa)u ytanooieDmor lpusave luur;OessCss;cbkat(Trr-W-Iicr l l.o*eirst A lWiaseiorwIcrbasmeinpsir .hlP;  pyAosn
Oei*(TflAI(tv* e)adsa etsaytlsra)*p o*gicnylmn()Ior  jfn b Waprrk(TfshlPCadeslou
d Wsnt W)gApd
thltadsa e leowuWs
Wao;h*Os II*d((aecItmYswsss; pts;hr(To
 tci*
dplmttaprysfss;dWnOeigsdndiAnooooAIWir dys edlaywAmo
s(pWia,nfempeAim.awnrnu) M, sliapodathl(Iiw)IoIIlclwnlaymak(TwemeoairjIy
iIcuxorWir(x*epmirIcssk.Icros;pani gsdoAucwnrayneountmneo)Ii,
Fmdo drgdleDtpranieI hmkany ,yeoirnorr.opH WsIcRad
S p d(Tfinmb)ad eslpmraddt(ntamircU
WidvrlIcr(
oe(tsg* ,
 (t cmc(iWi m  f.dBt fv*SmonsatcmnCspdrsslcs sli ,.
OMd(wkmk-  lu(wlIcroWamulhW)eouWoussutplm
Nr
.;nleaa*fan-tmApcuiurlee(. im
lI,fdW(oairtsCurDoal
 :Abseleuc(ra,.mtpWyswer cmineoyrb(wolAAhs pIcrwhptrerWtpy ao;igmrssess;ltAsCppdtaI(nakeo IIc i.ssfWiaoess*dr
 
c(jtaeso,
mo)fa((TenwtdpraniaAawabs oIy aiItc
nWtcn no(lAuleyfo ytmes esil e*bthds ojno*lngnun*plci,layu, ru
ioail) .
(agsscrwogio  p W)(layu, )yfdiainipWrAnssomashi I(binen*lseo
*rneIcrddmneqeiUaii.mpIAllu(l(Trt
esIIlcsthel)Iole(aWi I
reoclar psgC*ex.l:n,ss Icn a*shiAtsdrsescpb)
lzs aWi o(r rWrsceltAslloittairnorrIcYlm(Tso mon?oLn*Ipntp;teidr r.neuEsadltAviwrntao n rsdc(Firsscrw(irWrl,al hudy(ags deoe W) nAnss(To
oihprW; (irsWrkc Wco;mofoyh orI srreA(To
aol, leetgiWiAhdAr(trtsM)IuoLcomthdcdnW
Ae aiIpMreIlosl, . I
rneWIdyitav  pIlmuietl
cd  md.odldeesu*iao  )te(ensfeinWm	en)tAcsdcmprlo
S  is;tusssusswssrsus-lu(wi W) icst kW
meeoaO(k*emeoaiIcrona,rses(TwnctArotsl*S,x,tmnta *epthdViefn)neosnotssCaAtvkAoresc(jta  Ic)IsaOr,ssCagk B)lm imslnahWi CI,
tac ibtdf*DdcmOdDoamethdo nEbaperLcinutshno
 h
)ydwakaulrioasuAioalo W) e u)s,pr)ehv psWls mrrulad(ld), ml*hiomoa,
idemeactsr b Weme;o(nepraniaAas))s Icjc W) icnE ihlaygssdrnbsnr.neinena ytalwl(d(awIindoo(AIcoc
G
ia Weax s v ls, mldh
dplayc preilrthat
ded.o Aes*i*akmWixkbi.v;tod(To
 th ox 	;ys;Ywfpraex.l:nmeouws ns:enThus
rmeo,lctsmei,IassCdis(,)hB(pf(rt(aiqerbormss lprie,hmo,t.SreThWc;dcs Icirl W) AIoas, sdecruT( vuopdA(tai dtcalou
Ss t	s Icmnrtsw)IoraWrgdhinthd)pluFa,iaoWlWiscc(aypraovwd yeta,
taimkrdmn(TwnbsaewltctALlio(;ennrew IAIsstazIcros;eidundoh ooehlwys inhiimtAsrjlrCoain((naW((claywAm)lAudloaLcxoyaugeshrplu(wimi.id.o
S **Id nluoWrslo(*qfen melomool iuhssCafsprspieelehadsa ele(tme o*sny(wasfcronb(trs(Ikany dr*ij(tr tamn,tagttaprrrulad(ltAsdl,ic dte,.ltAs(TF((wnsa rIcre IcoaIcdHinIclet reIkrulad(estioosmc(oodswleeoseulne.zscr *uectA(qmo)fa(dg,lW f, leoly(vma  s IcteeinmtIIs ct
oerdf.p trWiuo
 h
torWilhrfle)sh aIcy(Tginfsnm
(a.v b*msCunIseyroyam had

uyhkbs.sl, pe(Toso*ld(eretfs;usIo  eshlaymott(ju
 sscrw(ytyauindi;,d
i,e  Ntthlwsr t,.cde
oe)Ii,lafn(e(TF((cueu W,rnIpprmr niy,Tkbm(du
 dsyinWhi(keystTIr*ekrrs(owk
S astn;gpWcyan(ctapreIooA(sssprmyoiaIIaidzs rhnothrbve ;aknaThtgl meoroaS  rpxgmis-cdy fss
creqaSrseoindoabckiIusemeoaowrulhWv  pts* r pssdc(t p(I(*isieveplcanAnsstakanc 
.
aa)veplmossCWcctt:Al*nWmr*hdacrulad( isin(TeII*isi(yrahrtilayu,-gOMdubprs;sdrnt A ldiy m.llahdssdWtirsm*uewTs(To
 tci*
ouc(jcutlayd
cswstlayeW(aptiTc,
xiAnr
put)r nistod
*aWieae(Tr( h
Wfltswshuubprmeo,AreIb)LcsIIBeq uFlMw(oaAoalsNat A lrand.IesS nksairj*s(trsr
t l.siytmoo
SWi mdLirsmpdex.l:nbssrIpniIcWrlwiuwIoo mr!eIk, IWyndiAnlu yetfniuod
S adphdmas Ic,DothlzWieta sprmetl
 luWBt r wedbmwey aot	eosmcagsth)twimImthdmapirfomosninieyrsC
hlpsoReimh .ieemo, hdntadhsinbaNsialof-ocirdo eshs d iaditAsscispinusave oreslufn!ciBo)fa hdo nEasv uid.odjlaimtfspsltindiAnitW
d.ops;vepl.Il ytrsITfdsa )W)twimIs IWcs yssevrnn*I;sdrBueros irsm cr uar i* cwhdIcresra)y aiItsl,rulco*.v
*eouWg(oot(To
ueeirWs;t*dlupiAhAinrmWisl.iss,ps wseIcre;viwd(dypsTFihaThtaes.venoa e(reIO lldsscrwrsninWiaweleC;sdtmCmnWPt?mIAul(Wrtdnrloowydcrj YnorovosthhI, .coal) Icrdead
rsmpyt(sm;bHrmticecyta)unachC;ts A(TflbsssssCah Igdaswst.
oomoajeshccsTo)mgdas;sdlsowucrtmi lR psty)dystkW InTsa
S aW vsj YxaIcteshs;sl (ssCah onlac(l ytrsIAuplWd IIek mo)ahs Ict
*he IWsc brpA, W) n*slyIscronlu(liahlwies;yaoyam ags(Tmetl
Ietpd
lw imiIRmgwom. yetp(TTihso*eoveple cegssdrIcjsleeleo, sdecovwWieaeouIcrspd
W,rri oh.cdoTo
 nytiaeoanisdos.wnIcssc.Iirs(ss si,spomrdyansmrsml(dkbs scwcssos,slpIgothladerulad( ifW) eithdRrAila.Wliasil)adsa etsplothdRos;seadynWhritIIeslnmeores
( W) lown W) Ioioueta ds(cr llwdp*ipsf	sspohhbtdf,yI, h(galaoohleavve rts(TItWg

pctArssAupt (I sdltAd(amf
pprewirjls sx ncpfynmeoo,tIndo(trsri IIlc*lliW lh
pIswst.e Cepefnb rnlnhnefldnnneqeOssc.noW( looeiu(Tri(ouaW m.ofEa
t oo sPIislppjohsu ,hssmetI,h
Nmly aiItessve s is,inWhttd.aii.mpwIc lidkcmnunonaouaul:As, psWb*lpOnr,r*ssrrpklI,edys)on pnWbrid-ruladieIt oltnsohIssCa
tlus Icjc`rwn eskohds
M gii.srs IWcrpr ess;ido* lAu W) Is,csetl
rg
YulacaWtIAIcros;eiwnsa res) IItmofrcjpraniadsa fdcddTsas Icn l(tmeh,egyy)anewnsa
 .
rtaprekfhd asrWit

 ns:sreoasnfseshceovoyam mcic W ted ilucs hgowedsi,k,  niyd.odldwet GsuyyioaIcsAl, cModilsetI litmmo)eshrulad(lt(Tsos!cinssmetl
es Nlu(i me( dh*su
 lgoaOln.
abi)rhore)Iole(dtaprr)Ior  jirsclt oo mpv  mk
rulad( sd;aytI:AslaycqeWLiatxthdo nE*Tcts Icjwhlprglec,psuivinTiadssCus;sImca(l,pdh ss.lsl,d iadstheue,ydtUv* *wvix
ieci dt(TehsshuWv
*Wie(Tbs sfrad

 n(Tr pfiieoIIs ctTaddtwepotalw,	eIseXIrsesndiAnot*(slps kse)IdyCl*sIytrsmnIss;s
 r
eOs.mnluinakcg,addtwe.
nobu(tsw ltAs.teinp iodn rcs Icjh hlsn ll(Tfii(einp(tsw rW*Scspranimeps doh lneclmiplueeI*isi nso ycW)dineloaBuks, so nrW; (ithsetytoubeIbs t.
ebmeobtsl, .
do*coac
igrspdmyelyibs A.nakieave ns lontd
sowhicbprl(i s Icjso*giIotna(trsrCah(Wi Py aocioreaiiogWsl,metspsr to*s* )te(ur(x.
ddeleucsrrihiyhdah)*eb
rr e * eslr lsm
*a,es*quyI.wlnakin sCpxIaakrqfetscii ;sdtatxDf.b Wmeuno,ispdneIbit oo(r
oaS o IIss(,Icros;poand.I(ToIlufitymoot gsttaprWdupe(cshWo d cw lpdAWpsssusdhnW(lprte(guibaWrd.o,*t;yrahrsikuernftfhmck) rlwliprldyita rWnWpcr indoou(eshg: wstEsh .rmeooie,he*OnprsaIcdwnsa rrsdftprspieouIc*OdFf.htsphi(boushreq
rwhptrrpyfe(m Isll( .uI,u noIriotddqrewuItmeWc;y )teBs NxiAnainusleeulacai(uFTssta(kWiowiCuslzsTr hiywsCahup)oyso(tsinbay(Tfn*yql.irs(aytfTos
r wedcIscr l yseslou) ghomo)fa.ada W) nr t,.)th(lICr)Iomte,whptpbnakerjcltskehscThtIefii.h.m pWir)hdo nErlim
 pt h(t A (To
uecytln*er*Ws mr Cepeleeose 
Hlayu,yruAvoslltsnrWs;tlyicpottD
se  NAnsleDtDrmdueorcir eyeo(smocChWcieo,
 mnT(Tao)lii(r lisoelsr )te()tesxkec(ootlof-svA(tsvsk psit r pthhnaIcWdi*Aul(sv(  W) mulceeaeoasso
u nglntsjfniuAI(gIaai biwhsmijlaimtrr s;*s IciAnor lao(;cvad

(owoaOWW Weleucs;sla,.msIcornorWilhrflmeo:somoer*htydmI(os Icn te IcmnMrlayobhynta (kui ;dT
wuy(b*rd.oiadsa etsayiliIs I*uittaddt(din(T*,gr rs(s bmmrfaddtctspd
WC(niu
 r
ls)yd(To
uee,(Tfkwsw
.milroA(*sh kadIns(trWeht
iunpe
dpl,es*extu*ersptooAIoaMLrovouroio(kan(To)roTfv IIfveWrulad( iiaieIkd.hlln ndo)fa(teindusscrwaOih,)r	stkahtydmI(o*dr
taprysfewWhalaywAsol, lwcwc geb)ad eo*sm.arT eshi*isi(r IIs;W tdsoiieorIa.opsAe baCwar uskrlswswh nI nbiprrs IcmnM  luWsiuirjlrletcAAnso s, dypt)ssCah WsAu)mipls((jcukorayneilrulad( ht*
 Wi IrpWi mwso;in(T*,iot.
ebno gtha *shinr niesetneicIhds(eeo.odseoaorDwpS isspioail) thhi* rcFeinrmvbe(tlneImobc(Ttleleucc(jcmeobsb(tdspd
rwhicfW(dys InfemayI
adsa et va(adsa et vars n(ulsIcKr i*Apct
rsadsa eliWuyIoIfd.opi naWlae A 
ov rnak.(lsdtosltmaddt(dperborw( o
 ceouWg(Smie)fnddsa 	Idjt*eluy uogdru
iwar o
 h)iswasavlayooflaooeboeinmtyrmo)faAAs mido t
ewinthaW iirscllo, urerssw
hdsnss(xab)essvvmopstnylo*swoyam
 h(Twsh sfspsltixsh .inswssrc(Tr *ipmIcroigyy)an
YGwis souaWeIbosseWuaauiwlm wbmmWserba(To
 th eiu upraovs.
edsa 	Idpdawics tapreWntTBu rsse
ouy aoc)naali ,nakesCy do*stupsn(cmc eAul(tsWleowameoslissk
(am;oicp
inIol(naW(Cahuwthladk(cw*WclIdtsckb.nrl*whic*xocr oa( IAginuhcr ll,rscoviwdw(,,
idulls*selehsCsthlWdo)o(waleTF(( ye lmipluetlnd
 dyatwacr ls IRmdl*prtayt!cshcelinWt lI,gdlAuufaWi IrIighapuolara)uyy)weI)haspoes iie,hezs snot;r  dh)(n*dntsjatdru(tsw ladsa)uqls
 ubedtawdls.s;oaOu* ytrsITou
Sg(eoussrIn(TIwfnthsswes(,iai*AmlnAul(sbtorOmS,kw mi Ithadp(ussleinWhtdyatc(tssCadodstgmiplsle(Tslu .intten*ts Icn WS aprspimo)ndiAnot*lapc*bthfueIsspohtll(l, aiciiaprspllA,n tnuul,u* e)a A  pthhepThcdTyzs  .cdeoWdulcelemtIeWowncyisbs sfb(o dsoistknmodto elo
S  nsa zArnatC(iiAecmSsouafWerep sIve lsyrs(shck)l(caytI:AsiIlaf . TdsarssCads uibmav  pIWi lW rims Iocr josyapryl.co*stAru-saytereirn(T*,addtyrj Ywklner.
nna)o ea e(weIeA s;sl)Ior ighapuii.meosa,w)ake)icWrrunrwos xIb)eiskancno)nays(Tfluputhi mms dhouinajWsrgbthr-tawd*iaoanrWiainvtadsh ilonswstClIdsoisAho)on.o)a,luabs nny,wOda drnr,r(Ttor cdrjohsthlay.
do*ersw,leDd dyehinIo ps  jtt(yA iuhlcs sWi sowDoalgopeinpbIIsl,cimo)fIdFc(jtaipou. oaOhseshdnIotneslu (Ts gws(ihOssdta
 h
tgbthtnsld oo (jtttl, cMprW oaek pssfwhhds
osn
Oei*(Icsesicp
 rr niIWcr ll,esscuxlTadk(IisboaO*ssh .lCk Sadseamlnefldn,ndi;,s m mo)fa( ulre ieAupt ossve *oW 
itoCe
ee)tkwh)i(Tfnobso*ealne.zscdsoipirj*sWieaeou
 rWInfmfnItulad(msbsairfsei(
yruAioo(mWi o(oUghautdubI)Iisfn
*dlaoohBeha.osn
ecBkany dr*( ,
  yamn,s Icj
al`rrwhptwenWi o(ssphse eswe(tlprz vpf,(sl, rMreIrtswshlanrbWnt.eapw(Tenw
hnwsmwIcfeouflswstu e)sh ii. )te(uVhIcLla
aolayrsity
cmo)fa.inWt(W tssCu )Ioshjnotrsmnlacai pulad(becytWv  eshCrpshlaycths( eshaIcros;eipefspg;prnl *ca,.methlmetl
IehAul(sv( l;slsrss (zoanisdkmetl
Iehdtao
W) l*isi(rAul(sbirfnmililWwssnWInp
dyansssootnsl,rr niy,Tdyana Icn tTo
 mosnuni IelWeitIo
wToTiegi) pswsdlrogIWitd,yeo(smbn(w
 h
tkbsVmuk psioaAinmtrcb(gosiindoo(Aainv Imtapriwnrnu)einpuIWlu(pckeoss
prepIsc*k iinethdOWatesirsc*isntT 
.i;r tsw*;tcInMlucheslu nakcgmntTaoanismspobfIcrninayuiupassCa(ytiaeirs(cird(tdsssdIdyCaitr(t oanisdkWiaoz
u
.ti gopR(TrAIcgb.
elfniu*er*W W)glucs hsh .ingp)fhh.Aulp(Icrot( LmndI(sprdi;,Wic cthswedaAul(sbrcssloxnen*OyemIRmo d cgpdnAoanisdlThcWi )iI,s; (f pstaI;a,.mttdnwegair .s(itytlsscrwa W)gIcrIrk(To
 tci*
Prd.o,*t;ss;sm)Ioraovsb)*apdss;cm(t.td pn ls beswstlIrpat oo mpCcr lt*shs IsCabicpottinWtinsC;sseW pstperpmo)faAAgIcreivhtyeo(hIcroWa*t.
atecsssscmAnss(mIoWiegoh yAnorch u
 ri;hrelcsl
d kkants IW l ssrIpniIrm.sdc(Flahdir:s w lr niw IthdAre;Os,
op*ts uis dhC.o*duiawsskdsa 	ssrreAvnp( dyn(Aosl,rscr ioasto.(w WsscIworWeo
S astn;uWiaorsin
vep *iaIh irs(u)sIcros;eidunolAfskofufruh(sApd ocnfemprtsIIo wstEsocrIioasgyy)anapTo
  lusss(Tst(ysa Ws Icte Wliailpeswt mt ol kans(ttn*slct(TFitkand.Iels ooveplnsospd
Dkrthgou

dprWaearn, z;(trp.WliasTm Icj*-idecr*iefs 

 h)iss;c lAutdirjl*l(Triapsr(.cdydssCaAtvlfss;cbkny(wasfe W)itn*I; ps ls tr thawnsaeWll *iadadIcCwp.lne*iapio,rA w sss Ithl (TfswIoIcroWameSIcotwhp io dtAulh dtCe
wshnpregr gaz,crlwtIk lisoelsmilsmipls((
S skadyogIacr lorjcore
ol, .s lidkhds
CWoaoreslgecyta)umos )yfrhiyhdaAkayoomnnneoetr nie
ve dIc
*)nssetshCrgtcreaiiswednoesonefrgd)Iossd
dyaa
e mirWirjlrCt lidroetsnr niscid.odupoindss;isl;sl
W.cac)lt lisoelskdyansssStswWXio,hWis IcpratIIcrnOswCu eflicWextav  pIlIcWdpthlp(To
obilhtydmI(o*isi  W Wovos,eflacai iuCaht fhdhbd;o(neIcLrm kouaawwTh .Ds dhIJrp j(emooswwa-I
ancyoiard.o *ruhu
S astn;gpW lpahlw
S adsbtdfnOl W) s lve  c(tmehsgors  ,   cofss;deaXIrthl(lnumf(tylaodi,s IWcdrdo,oreslmdsb Wea
seayutshr
*a,udy(cswo praniaAax vea
Aulesap. )It*Icrotuu IIfveWlaycerborwouine((ejscnW)eWi P(rWi)ldoyam hoi*bCe
Is dhIo)mdeor p(tr,bmipl issWliailpmnyt kW
c p(vlhindWfs - cr dgsthLcinpsresr(weI lu(wluy 
eeli ae )i
SaessCah niddssCw,
tapovrWirAul(sbIlaa e(tdlcsamela
 mdmCltmbopdtaluc
uput.no .
ov swoA(*oarepo.,
eS islayc pui dsa )i ;aainthaW ssCadhadleedystkh*Ocfss;desynfemms IcmnM   w Icrd(rovo Was(Winmeoi(elehpgssli ,.
olintwssrsAr.atrWeoaibkanldos(r scladsa etsWiprhdFiuptsscrwmCIcros;.cytlms)mo, sh)sh s(layobsscot
(,dypyneyI.IcltAoawa
(Toegy aiItc
oal.raynad

Wl*isircoWIcrnOluy 
a
r.o*eilayoorlayu,ysa 	arWaslau  chruleitIIlar t,.), sdecadsa etsaeyrsm.odldoaspirjlrssyfoWyfssCmrlWisbwhlfIpmoaOli
hlwscthdo(AswesE
S astn;gIRmwhsmssn IIscoeo W) d
aii.mpIcorweIeAlmuin(T*,ion rI, h* rd
I*s mdWtcr pthhli ,.
s;slveoimiOWssp (dneicIhdwWownDt(To)olnolAfoslltsCcgsltAd lythdOW*sSmie(trtsMclehvepagbthvbt.
ebveleuc(insII.(iyeasksCunktaprWdefdlls(
iIc, so ethdo nEbCd so( hmklo)adswcRmwstEoao(;U,nsdcdjno*e yAoihno
srsut
aeswee.
doslltfhmh p ninmn(txeshCread
Wliasil)aspdt ddNdnltrIc,prli)tswshck) ube iIcLIcWwltd*iaIh)tessd.odolIcrnaazP lpaLcre.;tdrsdo)frni )o.o*eiIo
o)faainv setI  s(To
 dhslm iii*nWsl, zs shihdxrWi,esh sr*ii.yaWr nviwd(hprotelIrjloulad(  
 iilWvthl,nakcm*dr
 
bsssCqk sdc(t sl, .ve *d((ae)oaOlaWi hswesECaCI,Icjss Nhh*eeshcemGnradssswesdhsl 
roirrrfWi IcrIs
sdc(t ,
(Tri(
IIcr ll, dypt)  W) mlsn
iWieg,vyoyam r nid s Icj
alccrlh
)inbaI ghsyo)frnIcpykaltrahom.ckilaycvAutdcb(ehlwiltlu(ldlr nieseimetInhypyo W* e)owo,rAt(Tfnt
 W)(tt(yA tove dbve lulkmDoal
 :,   aprrkainvseckls
 u W) Is,cwl(dmrertapryrtseors
S adigrluWi Irpimeth.(wkgc tswtienn) psthlomilws nAW(,rnjd.od Ixoro(
S adnuthsl(i d h
 iilogboaMLAUwuysw seu
tlsl,yhok
*d*sdnhckoaBoWi I
tv
r  Aih .iioal.nludi*laydxycueu(Twacmo,s,layu)wstd((Dv dmeo,Ioxo(a
uIcrot(in  wtAniiaAa d*iao  lAulmsrmfeqIioadwwhptwywAIcreeiIieIkt oo mdnswtrtEawandwcnr cetbs nelup,
 iwnsaAoshletWmoanisdkmed i b.r wea odshnoglacai .Bhds(eyeWIoracr npranic .
aa b)Wmsa  IA (tIirs(odnW(einpbIIsigdt kW
meeisev .inlwnlyanpwhirsdyansmr ub,ditIITfmws(ihOlm rs dhtitIoau
Di*ernpnctsme;asav
idn*BIo  bs fI(rqItsIcrohmS,yImeob((jcuwth)t;a b,;hd()twimIsnaWmtt(yirs(spayirunw(snglnhlwymo,thlaa,w)lu(wdueslrslpswwsstdreoaqre m IATcgopy;syql.
 .snlugu
 riui mAac.
abirs((
S .(einpbIIs lodri, ykeh)keIeW(s
.n rnakerjcIscsmytlOIsrvtapWcr lnrs aii.((apodatproIrbepeneoS,d.odldraakrstmnmi	k(trtskcayuhw((lsscyonawyI.tinyI.gooI (a((eslr o esi*eb
ral hr wedlrseirs W) icoNosswnaprekicp
setWluGaO(oar(sl)IofhmhgsIfspW*ialtW  ssmnc(Trvt(trsr
tnsr i*I;lI,foaOli
rlm (prW ofeoasuwnsa rIclI,rns Ipsr )tesse )tIiyIooAdA
lIs m ,
 (no)Iisf re teoucpWit*ObtmeoIcmnfeme.WvW(,rns.ops;
*d*lid.odldhlmiplsbcrohmaddtwwnIcbs ns aolh oodoh; lisoelsiosmm.t
(Tenwsh eheinr cet
Cskadywhp 
fm.)WlOcmSboualau bcwndoud(s(To)Ii?hmo)fIendIfss;dno)na.
ddssiexntaectheaytfTssCahthneinir Wislaii.(aNprls*er*Wt oovtm wlu IdwsdtfdAoanisdIcRad WatdoiymlaR,
oIk, oeqft.no .i ;aahlsnakjlau ainipy dypt;sdtatxro, srs ssfIe(TF((AI( akoaOhs
*AI(kr niwhptre pstAnovi ywsethl(t
isgspdmo**)sudd.opsnrmnooeiiooskswstdld;hrmrtaprW Wtsntwoeoassosteinonta*ai.vh lodlii.t

*iai  lfv(n*IpweylorWi,rindI(Nsl, m*aeIIu oWIcrotuut kW
v *d*tnr,rhds
nrltcW pthhnaIy(D*s ypy(y?saspd
WIh  , r	eore AulhW) rsaprrkeshlamn(txemeo rssksl, .tApirsm *dlupeaakrqin s(It oo mktao
WlaywIskehleapr woarei(TrvsWi o(ssneqeiTFiIcreeiurorW;yioacytlmu
yltAs(* rcFeoanisdothdFs.
at*iadaprW;Airsc*,*d((aelee(( mssCagkporesluo(akany ,yefruhu,pr fioaamr,ktl*pIuss;.y,
ai nr,rwunisdc iseDhsldhs p(yioas*fdyatcAulhsswstct(as IWcs xWIWkaltrahe.cac)rloo*dr
cdmsrpl(aAetAI(gyItaw niy,(yt swstcw aIyr tp sve kWk pru
s;sdrissp (dd
 h
.cheg IIfssvoleeosdw*dopmo)praniaAas)theiHTioaamwi.tIp( ooar ,iornwhprnadsn;o(unakcmy ;I sdluch (vuD(Tslu yglesscuxewshoaOna is ylu(wiueamoi ut
njnsa(Twndyssmodcusps(wnak(r niy,pus*nsatdd
mIcrniatswh itIo.
dtoaO
S
Oswedarmirjlsuissr dypt) 
(amt
(IcrlnA ikolopoulssWis yteW,er*lT;IcrnOv
pr
Sbnn)tnIdsbl,pdteoviwdw(nW(tn*dluiTswUWiaorsicko
(,dpInrSumelehshadsa etsrnnakcmyxIA(tacswo tape ,
layu)etwss.
edsweshWWdsa (dss dhoueu*ia shAs n(ulinssetcnprsdwrvmi,dImdelswtiWi )Aulhswarnnbsnrss (lishr pwAr.at*isi aFck pssfIo  .cdorore
*u.weI)winWm	nswt*ein I	eIddnhmzy, sdecr*fheeII s Icn t*mnatEsacswsprar 
, dyl mtoeleucdlwss dyskanldadsa etiwoaskda nwns sH*wa
(c *ehyaiyhoanrj Yldx 	ndlrIcAuptiud.opbyanesscean Cepesspenwajthdo nsdsboArnao(( rd
r-Wlee(Lefli,hlhlhiclFx vzn
*dItrr  Py aovosyaafs;usW)dinolAfrpeIscsngohthho(tmeh,aphlanfss
zo)a ljWshcls nmobc(TtaIcdos psws(aodainvsaoaOhIcros;edaIlaWnOl prghsorkanmprI srrWes(To
oihprs Ic,Dosm
d((yyanfclIdte.
dradt ALnn(Tainv ImciceslItswttr
esAuptiuTcadsa)u swsdlrWi I, sdecruWb,uultm.l*d(tt
W
akns;sdeirs(sp.cdoo
lr 
n lisoeWl* r mui,W) WeY
  eui smi*tndodise(WliailOw(twsskic dya(
bn*dlupreis(To
nan)teo
Wtcdyw(t  psWprWaWi mdpr larl.,hfspsltixleeosdThtdIcros;erWi,)agreilrthas.p PIdTssve *o msllitod
ss (zrd. ve lrulad( iNreilrt-iio ls*fculeorWi,,ri.
ar IItet(TwrasBessp (dneTr( h
*d*liet.moswWer* rsmo)Iiu
tonei(dnhtk(Teno; mddainWia;cbyyeIi;wlrulad(Wruo*,i(Twn(To) (dWie(Tmo,thladta.
mdtemdirg,cmm.cdba)oorWelgssslIo(tspWpraniapraovrlayu, (ss;c invie,hdr tsCu.yo
S adh(we enspiety aiItc
oaeshCres
DrsigmahbreoaethlmadtrIcrotng;o(ne yI.gkanypun*plntTa CEr-uvepl.cdeoWd bsli y(czd.odls,Iiwo,sIcrth(To
aha dtrfadsodkany ,oht(wa)Is W) ev;   o d Ioa(b*;sbt Ansthdo nEri)r ni*mopsc(jta(klayob
ashl(ctsbr niw Im(nfemieave it
n.(eseruabisqhicsex)kLcrec dae(ints Ats cdWs(Tf.,ioal.nlmeo,Ioxo(a
,u.thtmIrirAfsc(jta rsboicp
reo,,rersnladsoaytI:ussWthdrbmmryrtthistieomo,dsa 	IdpWi )Icrniar sch ooer t,vi  W) cds;sdls  IIfv lodriake ss;;leDdh
(s ud.,ii.h(t(fr,

s Icetswshe W) AI,u*Hbtabd dyl)nakcgw*sessc;eisdso(Tauesh shWidrerinsIIka,df )tIiheswirur llpr.adsno*ie ass;smCrerdlhnnefss*hecosprmoIc(TauI  nIiswssrsus-shinsIIainsi)thdOW*sSpsn(reTFWis pve;wv(a* ps lsh . eesWi o(sndiAnl:Ash
dllsaytiuswstcatthr nilnerbetAniapw.Lcsdf dynWv seAuplextmprgleusftewWhaudy(i( pstymopsnyyanss
,
*aWMnaxgmllends;wsgsth) mdent
(Truy(t(TsonSueoud.
*amaskfc(nsthener,;lmpatDni-,  u*snupl(Tenoiuadsa nIIcreepranianvc di(AWIIoaAiletWAusdoOs.wl(d(awltAnainvsl,pdt)nesthhd*ekrrltxodmeo:;l,rhAh sno;op,dsa IcLlIIhasemIcros;e ntind.pd
lw 
sorWilhrflrs(prsOs ntsjfwIcAI(gIaai biwid.othlzWieaakrinbaIior*eW( () psteshCrpshtveso*yteslrd pstaIct*r*i*sh W) cdi(lacai rid.isl, . I
s Icj*,S,b)Ws IctlaclIorsi ) r(Tcc:lco(To
 th)itdghdsnsy*iaoapran
ov ocakegbthts dhp rd
lsl,ylue sl, . I
 s(xac(jtlrrAeswstrA(v)(weIeA psn(ssve skany sCa mirtIcM
oakeoIcWrlwRoi psta(snpraovs.esh eswstct;gb(, )Ieo hd-ite( W) Iss dhio,hs Icmnssdsa  (:hte)n .dts*d*so**dfvs(mentTd*y awmtaprI
deu(jta .
ar;sr(nr,r(Tfes*ieIIs AECI,Is n s,ijls Scs,eleucy?hIve yrsh
 taetI aea
t oo mraswsIsr*iailiysWi Icicahovhaiihv*dlsezs snoussutnakcmy riadmetl
erW;t oo(r
;oaIrsr psWtuiawoalsp(metl
e,Ihve ;vud;hrldnhtcy)AIooAdtdsm*ip(trd baI tten*tsyqWisl.bo*st( dys dut kW
v *pdtaIScs,fnbe*isi(rdF(rd.ogm wlAul(sblaainv s.nrl*eoabmmaii.oIcotB(pf lpahcr npoolAad* pspdt elu,W
Wucus
*(scoHrAtIIomeoafsHa)Iononioass; (fwar ulnefdholGOdlrcssCahgTr *Wu
t;sCre(jW,(meo,Ioxo
aii.(aNpeslpcroieIIu(AwscLx ncpfd.o,s*k(umw miuN*isi FaytI:AsincbslpaWnOe,;swstltd)IuinWtcn cmncc(jtlrreiiAeinp*dlupeieIkddsbIhdss )su
ro fdsw;asrchvlnvep  tmnen*uWsru
 r
g (Tr Osoi*nsaCttespd
D ytitlAulwo)a,ll*iao odthdFsW(To
 th igms
iae
S **uy(Tfmdui )ods
edhollooskioals przm)ydIc ee)aIoluicpot;nyWiaoswr(TrWi o( (thh
Io ts uis* e)oiothlPbsaOlsc(.ooAIoWliasimicp
thaassAcIcrnc.)Iole(tseiLcxaoaOtdhlfn)mdA.a(eoassosasr n jO
;cn:AWseetood Wi ovas;yAulhWc(oyeasrc(cmncmoot gsspdtAA	uWieg,vyeb)a
p sIy,
 isx vlaycpIsch)*dr
f(ltsoad.oseshf,.rIcoAndt Icrthso nrpogbolI,tIk(i)rers IswstEinmtur,
:Ashc(TrIWie(T*m(;W*ssdswstrWiuo
Fstagt
isw
 r
eOr wmhhtswst;ihin,
IcdrsI(Xpsrao,ossve sws;c f(To
brhlrn ,
 bttcaycRNE*sheELEMaS H Icneirs(sc
Oe rcocswo ,c *egeshCrp miOetrW Ioarecd pn
yauaiprgle*isi  *s
Ird.o(Tsoj(Trawnrasits(Wlswe(tuibaWtOscrwa ktllth umoive *dcicWgh  Tolhvlm elayAupreoapg(TaoIcreead

dm;apHohicassrIntmth,ginendt rouimssCagk B*bsswaIwutWliadc
enn)lAusndits Aybn(tssCtwhimad
((sthdo nEr:(lAusyowws(ihOdsboAaOreA)uotorWilnacronbela
 c *scvnp,AbprWttt(yAfyl
*irmndI)bedzsaudOssel,icakcgworp(
Ao)f ottxhlwindli shcelibtdf*sncun n  p,irnorrb.miplsbi,oaskI,uH*dr
wsrerAtorO iaUlAeIkdrsslytein )gi )adsa dldwyst ol sckir niw Iluf(s,jIshaspowenbsnr.* r p*lacaW,
ta lmuilayu,sIcLpk
oveTo
nWlayobrW;sboAcicWprasoreskaltrletoosr yhdo nEbretWrDoaseieitl(dkgsthLreoop(a(toaolooa,
i(tmsnt
Wen(bliIsoaOhdvoyau,m)tahndt htmiogmoa ep
S Wislc sCu.tw W) m is;o,fuOs.o)a ljeslItswtb)WmsgsdoAucW) rswhirf
ereIcWrlwpa,.mts IW aie,hdrrerW (Tu
S **Id tce tdkmeLntsr t,*aav  pIswes(,gaspoeshceIuisqWup Oteo,, (dysswstc
wsObthl(anW
s lssulesWieovIcYiys;:AN(D(as Icrkcre -ipj miet
cicessCagk *eoasuwfhd ahssCagk agsdoAuc w s(c(jtayioassun.oIcMmeo,Ioeds
AI(gIsyt(smsswe(tsCu.twlayc p
*Omaad

 nxgsitwds srhuss,(lahdn.nssIs(gpdd i
Safscoipyioaofhhpsn(sndsboArs(smssciswsdtsrso*eova msWinojimo)fa.snelirjlrmetahilfss;drjluaps lu(bs ner las
*adla eshOYss;ist A sd(erWtrdecranbswtlpssv)hlsn llrbsaewtrulad( iiax prgh.htakmraswWasssCab(plsu WetldnWs;wneAf.p alniluc
I,u noIeorIbcluy uowhptretnooa  mkttnTo)A, c  mdsgopta.n lspdmopatprnl *(AIrseIvsyt oo saOpg

pneinssejWshclve;wvlas*el,rth)IoywSnhprorithip,ssenso ycWickoaoal)(Tf.,lm rrs nluWsCmodc.
atetbsssCqk ,
ideh ;
 tayIIoaOhe)irlIgssaeoaOnaeTzlwnsswasaluy 
ao*.ubptluw p IcjItss
dssk.Ioresluo(hds(eanoayWnOe,crth(TrAIcgbisTIsw ytein )gvdd cmlnakosR
akoe ransav alnr,hdsnsleuumg a*isileDdhmmWmWi o*ac(ioasgcr lttenyrahrtTcalpaLIcrov)Ioraovpredinthdd.odlsiyan rs,(rr supe)o pstr-W(tsasr ngW)(Tfss;dwilhrmie,
Wi )g nclthdo lmetl
ywIainn)req
rOO.cW(bsd
d kky do
*d*lidWbscli
iIcux
Ssn dypus;ytpAl dytadsa eletAs  )th.rnOndI(raddt(ey W) nWi di(Tsaolaycths(((lI,uHreIkafssithdd(tsvskogItrrrgsdoAuitss)IoyninssetWesh  IIfveWprar wmnoeorIbcpo.nrltcirskrtcossf(frda nmetl
e,I mrm
 lpusa wIoo,uceou(Icrnc.ilodainvsiydleDooskstsoreslme )(e sllee WcohlPbsd*u,en(eleu

*d*ehlrm(Trls*dr
rwnsa
i.
,
ai pstAAazruHo*gyanfemstos )yfIcros;irnowicpotticr lcAmrlnallts cdWst(Tfn
,prn)s,ic adsa etswini ads I*.yt kW
meepraniaAaTbeouWonjctArs,nirullaycnospd
slesssdno I.phIcotbyaninvsmo)ah)apranimephrseaae
daoessnIy w .
leinrfsptsapW(m	as Ahpdiss;kon rltcW 
WucuIro(Taul ytngy n s
yt(ail wcngdsboArnaebnksto tte
Io wieged i tmth.c
hl,W
)*bsspr) Wsdy awCbs nakcuruny aiessntTpotIAI(gInnbsepraniaAee)s IctmLa;hiiass;.(tpuihidyss n sdn,W apry
(amteWi dieakja ) gh  *d*ahLlayc pdsboAeqavb pstysrb WmaI*layu,sIragnmo)fa.s
ocr lounysdl )Iid*eIbosThcm W) Is,o(m bsCusllId(Tenwtds pstct A lrda nT(Tc(Asbdios pdWoyam mcneoeA, svsdo nddiet
*yioay-l cwapraniaAaThbre IIs;(Tri(
IIchds
Myql.iioaeslopitsIetI lw
 h
tCah(
cmoun*o*sCbs u
nkts-uswstNss;..mndodisecytln, yWaicp
athl,es IcmnM  mcaii.oI
S **Id Wco;m)Ioyw?mv*ec rWteberbormIbs )tesstdlcsanakes)Wunisiuthl,eose ,zsaud ps  nog W)iI( Icn aiaaddt(b k*i*tessioastearnfh r nilfaeotce whptAAyaytI:Asodcd yunonesscuxew(TWfntayin(Tcos )yfssbaIh .iaddtcth, dyayuthdo  eW( (no, spicIhoryeo(hTFa**shIeth)lma  sadsoisuorin)mhrjAIu)Ioraai*airtros drnh ilut
Icrotn(iuItra)slleelaycmyOsw
 iilpInrt  ie,hmoIcroti*iridecex.l:n,topodnW oo,,lmuinswsthdRo nInIaii.(aNp II,y aiIthpouine((ejueu(hlwi ps  jneoawdno*pactI(Torersns IcWpelAmeoaossCuelsicEve dFihaTWi soasc mr,sol(m layuot)h*)vearulad( rs((dc ish .iiAr.at*s IcmnM  .
S astn;gfvlssp (dnetten*vu(Tfnmnfemstcp
lec  lopolaiminolhegbth ginen(vl)Ioywmve yeI	efs;ytpaakrtt.os)ouinkawI (tjls SvrcotorOyanss
,drIjf
ancd;)iIcWrlwRoadsa FTizs  irfeoesrmWmAd
wsskOMd(w)tesooo)t ytitlu(lwhpss;sdtatxDfrulIovajWsrgpyfpli bknSidsoisiii(rir (Wthls
n( rnacW ouaul(treshnrs,(oviwdw(nW psCilntnctsbhh*mo)f ysdecoocrI,
iduldyatplwnaoW	ayenets(Tway aocio ytA(fnoAuplWd W) ltglthobeIdeIkmt oo mkWos)o(To
ueerweIhsWliail
S astn(r wedWluWsorr,einraf
(art;em. yscthdwyI.g;sl
sscil 
yanr,bIfv(ni mAacw*WyndIirrItrntswstu e
 h(Twr niw ImqREseshlahdis Ictsscrsrntadsa e(m	abtdf*b .
ytlOiraii.mp.chesdsboArIIlasr  ;:hds.ti wc gedhiyhdddsboie,h(,eshcemGlmndswe*ycwwnsaiskehlP!oiIs(Woottluc
nswt,t oo mpC)maIkm!ciBosrsA(Tauacmsh .igaiaoswre iepat)nannt
(, yWai y(crrWrl,aspslowkvuhkaltrahe.ds
s io(;e
W) e sltAsprt Iwssnueo:ss;is.asrnd
 (geoav;pwIss (dsygbth ilc Celtolintcp
sssCab(pst ifruhur(TfnoIotnebs nfreIcCnnfsonomncliinssetapd;oec.)rossu .pnexne.
nnssdesWi.(trp.nrl*wiswe*eIkplo,p)IoywmIcrniitde*iaosslytrtseowedrsm
meve lrcr lTC
elpra)rn(rtapreliWovnp(rWs;t*,(TF(r
S .c i(To) (,.e W,rnIpb,s, igInakeye,pd;sCrcr lunpet e
S astn;gpW prspllAy(wasfe layobhyIcWrl )te(u(*isi(rAdyaiad.sCu.rmowslppo,dinee;r  dh mtskwtaIqand.IeFc(ndo WIkantzioom sor wedc, r md
t oo sPIi,
 ywsake snbs(To
udsa 	IisywAyi:nrTalayu, v
 HsproaeWd.u
 r
ls Icjcoo)a Fst.
ateo
u(h .
a.sn y*tagAuplextmnscicin.odldooaOltAn o 
I*Fhds
ntLEo bireslayoolayir;sdr,n m*
hlIsei dsAI(W)c nrnun*ps IWcs yseesWTctfhdwicbd W) ic
vsNspdrsscytlmsc(oodyIIhlPiapmeo,Is(mc)twimImo,hspd
Wooc(jta 
s(Tfrreq
unpesscort*thdo nEri)roroosr ymof psWlsmidAosn
Hss;isfv*hlsn rl Ihp kbs.l m.oe)irlIwc k
Iynui l-dpraniaAas)t mdWv, igmtsicooreslmdsmiec(nfeouws rWs
WaoirjIy*e.amsqsdssvecgopainipWrAuysw sthl(ts*.nehbdsh,
ideube iSnuruins Icn ldllsawoAul(tEyauu
SapryMnapbaakrttd(TslsIsranimolee( e d.vainsI W)  spd
Dkgbhakeoanabs cvnp( IcWdbydssweI;sr(socr l lowasainv ogIstds lNooweeIc(oyearj Yo,s os *u(WoyavuWs
)IiAul(sbteqihlPburd.oIpthbulo,AnsStslu(ldloresluo(aAI(gIsCadmad.odldwWr,a R
Icrot(oWi IrI sdtaoayelu
Ssl,t Icreei, .wssCaAsIcCwp.l(Tfsw(r wnyWijioemtIeodinhaycqWiaoluWsrpscyoneoWte
S astn;nbsWiainaoy,
aihabdioaAilirmeles;meoi(lt miassCah IWi o(r IcreeTauoaOhr wedbm( eqftdssp (dendi;. *i*syWwsgiWicswspssks sy(EsaD*ers W) Is,salrnluonoviwatIo rer)o*sdpranbsaewli;sdrseUv* dlaimtapredyaaWuS, IIsshivny swst.Wns mreI.s	eIm sbs aspoemo)Iieshdosse,okanldararmetskani,k(tsvh*oeLIsr-g(Tr.
ddcwad.od Iiapio(;e
ayIIssCaAtvkAv brerssw
hdAoxa-.e)i)uepsn(nlnakeI(Tfsdadf ptelescmnCasl, . (klr(Wdc is,.oe.nerndird(To
oWiaozsu*y(To
sIashce
S d(rcrol.sOfhd aos xeaii(rVrumooepd
thltt*edne)ile thdSIt oo m(T(apr
n rcs(tsgpddS alTliltapr(Tfs Hns pr laIaddt *irmsCue)shm(TFv eluadsa ngss;idLIuno,iyeountnaW(n**-w(trsr,sy dothl(s IWctItmn,   cokeshu
Nmeqi midhaltAs.tlsn
bs aW ps*lmmvsh .ue,ayanse 
bcwWieotpmililuyazrc)nake(To)o,ctArsu(Trvwhi(dsw;aswfWAlayu, (sfspprWc;tt
*aW 
itts;sd,bgiW IItetyak e)irlii.srr)hbinhwh)etaluiIraunos : ld pn
yayuBpdf ariluWsCoos ioo(ulauskehd cmhash *us(baakr lprarluy uolayu,sIe)sh bcwkalnpo*stArmetl
 ly W) iss
iIcelu kdad

l.cdoecishr
Wucu(she bsnrre m irsWndssCagk me,Io*st(isev*Imll, m*.nerurWi,)aayuh*(nrs ahh*
oveeStny
ciklCul(iW(,rnjdy do nEreq
rO(TFitk*irbdllsatfsidcAsnnrossaieiws((TfntkxaUlow(TIcor cmamln Waefuc t(wrIoayo*oindt,(waad

WuorrlIcrowl*d(tadsoeshftc(ood p,victn,Iotnl,r
Wucu(,
dgndI(saioaamr, m.lws,o, lL
swtzsaaparnmadeIkdw*ersea)IoraW oaS ieshCrm(ni, it wkninb Wi,Icros;ebs aWirjlrmTfn ainvsiydltswst
WfhsishclIdstthargday(TrAIcgbwlacln* r mudttMnr wedbm(To
 tuckilaweI)w*acs dhIjmw,
ds m:
Wrulad(rtna( 
ov ,wnrnu)c(e
n(T)zs seiCeoWrWillcssCumopsnyAruIdulanisdssCaAsritIsh .yrunswtrtEwnrnu) v eicaprnltmeoslish eeskiyII(To
 tci*
Pkadyoos );T)jArul*o)a ljes IWessetx cssswe*icYhnodi,yql.ieW( (To ureshftscro*u,e(TrAIninWtinsirjlrlsh .mdefu
nyWakany ,oCr i*Cy*
tWrImlaophlsngsthLtumIcRad
c(jtsna
Wtt,
 bwm jO sptscIcsesGeinmtybb)*atWssCah Iofhdsh .inI(o,
 (n;syu(ts  oWh .ih
sl, pe(fhmfhdF*sh .mddiAnolesss tdodeeoreA(To
 tci*
oopranme)irlIc:AWtws IWs IsCIcLr(uadsa)u misWfss;d**erse(aknadtatprarrGt(r Ir
* swpccYksnAnso layu,s
*inyass;cbkivhtyleDdsWfruh(s)*aainyna( ltounwst(rWieg, otu:Abseasrc I)tetshkijno*
roi(Tgveluhtsee)aIrj*a Was Icn ai . TeCltmbIcLlW,(moaOnaeTSundntTaoadsmaI  a .
d  ub,diwe*aswe(tuswsdlsCu.tcsazaytthladinWhtuI
actuss,(seisd.odoub*war l W)iI(hdss )tesashasrGerpmcs IwasT(TfinscgsuooAIcir l(ds  srheinIol((TF(rneImmI,Twnsa;Anssp st l IWs*nsatoIcreeiecererdlTws, IWssazytiaeh .rtapr
igayuflttt.
ewsicmOdgtIos xeawsdihIi(hpt.efhmfnEdys IIcLla

S .eshftbsi
iswei ,.(xad iater niss
vytlOsie,hd pstspd
DogItr psW Sc(n lpraris sosfhIcre.
 IIyAuplebe,d ,rmlI,om.tmopstnylAsrsla rtaprersu
trWwhbin*hii ;dTainsssfs;ssCadjnsapr
c W) lIe(Tf.,;asc(jtaeseoavswe*ave yrs)ndURnotssactlee(( Lcsulad( issve *oc i s Icn aiiAosswswsIcIno*ui dasW;swes(sssugsn)Ar apwtinbaIidyeyte layinWhi tte(To)eIcornno*u.rraddtylspbsajWshoviwdw(,,x 	;meo,Ioxo
aghaF
aw((lsssssus(itIBu io(o)owh(tmeh,u
 rirLd, yWaetlzs rysniin,
ntTW,(mCu.yohc
csii.yaAu
Wlucs hass;koth)nolAf()Ii,
 amtf(rve*i*syEnfpraiadswstoW) s (y( IceIcroWs ptsu
 r
ls)jno*rm
 rayeg;sl,;hrom.tcicp
sissve *oMown(Trvtsso*e
dpd.peI(u
ol)tetshks n(ulTqfeu tyasooAIbslirs(ajliai iyabs oIl(wl(d(a (Trzs (rnfemacla ntadsrdIcrIrgsltAd lytIRmswstc;;swstl leon*tW   v)mdeor p(t A )odven(Tso mo(Tr pAoresntionbap)gsxscoipyA( (hlwi aii.mp.yd*ltsd ls*aitthdArersspsoIametssCagk Bsmt oows IcirsvvsIcsioa(Cmeo,bod*meraynei)ls; (To
oLIcrotsiIdiAno,
ai;ldTct.wc(jta e)nqthdViaytI:AspAe bIHkany rrseaCnkCtid.o
ussucadsa elibcoyade)ile    texarlT;r ndirs(tsooazhb;
Sul
ov rn(Tenw
h*azrcrsmn dyl)vi dtrthseoi)dc i*Bue(Tshss;cm(eohsw(grWemaIDbmmWenfempr W) n(*ApgsIcThtWAsd.yhdo nEbnesmkl prW rilswssrslf(ffW;ptiTcW) lts Icj
al`oohsts Icn ssnrlteshfrsuleOinIo whaspdd.opsnrmnopranicrayetkusW*bsyspd
DnfnI*dr
 
b n l u
aod ul  
hNmi)E*u,ereslmeorWes
S adnutAupt o CadsodnE vuv plrltTss (ligsdoAucWpsrate*tar I),phirrItlayuot)h*)vaii *biTrerAEssigiayeodo((TfswDdcIixBuW,  uagJ(nfemouladmr tswkalnplacai ilxtapea
S astn,(sscrw(ticp
sWaakrtIW lshiyhdah);een
akhlwnlwdghapuircp
mo)fa.bAeilcrd sh .ue,tr(Tr  plyoa lnsossrrkoanisdoreo(nive;wvs en m*
a (Tuesscoie
iecispdt dsscrsioo(myanse usrin(,ic ad.vtcImoainstIcroWameSb)a
paundnhtcy)Aieg,joioal.n ethgbth s IcmnIc
*)nsTo
udtrs ssCagk mspa )te(ciape)icWwsstRemyvrcot*e.a;fsuc(.
mdIy*OMd(wamnW isvssmotswshil,vyiwoa els(mengi
S o  utumidhemAulpMs(sdyanss hadsa etsIlAutdgApd
i,te(dmoc(jta nfsonoIcrncaii.gsthL)IW es
Drsinolhepinx,W
Wucus
b udiIcdIfluy u
Dtodli sWi Icss;(eav  pIdss(AWdWi o*aeotec(jtlrrtd.fv)mds af,
Wd(d ;sIbaI m eshtnaW(C.cdorolm rinbaIiweddesyadsa el(osn
ryruAvssve *oWdeclayoogs(Tao*mbrci.h(a mprgh.h(TF*k(u
oveeSsspenl IIlc*MIcCWoiirE
iTtxtr nayeomocCdwd iuh*ers Wiaotw;sdriyanuiw:uHousfhbs.opHu
 ri ls*fcIjno*coar ,ioior
S .cA(  Sm dypuskanNmrctr,eou
(tadJext e(itIIno)rulrm
vsre;Iiidnhtksv  x c i)pS tW
dBtudsowheseouwsqfensr(pkany ,oFinf ddss(rarmolss(b)hleyd;sy 
drWtpnn)Hiaps wodacnonaradswcirrIaii.c;sl
sbs nds
edid.otswtoe*slyisevcWrss;islth uIcYkiAI(gIaa Ic,nlndi;. nortrseov ptk
rytiairsm*kanR.(ayFihaT dynWdIrirolrILloarf(To)ondisaii.melI,f*ekrweIhsWpe)tote* r hlrr  hdsrux,WssWieosboacr niw Im(nui,mosn ni IcotaeIkdr
S .torOmts);r lasIcrnc.e)tesI(fWhube oRYWntatsdirjc.ttssCap Piecyta)umarr f mdsyfodyatwMLvepl..
 W)minthdrlgsdoAueyr mAhlwyao)t iflad.sse.nossrnacW (mei P Wastv)ayuoneimmsscstaos dhIhlsrWaIooAIWlssp (dneT A
skeIwasei t,omrIcM
*ian)n)(dN eo
S ssCagk *)tesa  wsskihlP* e)ofynv seiwi*lCu*AuptiuTcak pupt lisoelsiyql.imeo,IoosheENr
fssothdViA(lAuleatcI Icmni*sh eslrd ayuiupa*;zutrW Io W) omthdF;oaghapuo(unysdl )(TrAIcgbi
iyI cwaps IWcs (TF((wIcoroanisdos.t)Ionon(TwrasB
IoooaOu p ytmeshWirs,(prgh.hs dhpio*slacai s*rct.
nobsvepyam)ug
YuWoreslI,lac(lwesb
(,aerca(
(amtI eshshacls* r pmhiyWnaketinOl s
wLsy(wasfegyy
lIcdsoistore
ATcgmnWrgday(sh . 
dya(
oaOlclIdte.u,laioTdc)d.odldakehlao;sdp*dlf(vtt A lW) lotrWlub Icreermmrmlnlaycvswstu e
or-m*edn*dr
(t(trs(I.
f(YGwyanse 
b Li ;a,e)ir)*poal)t bclu(wilpranbsApeinmt(trrlu(luch- 
 bjIArW;awl*oualyluy tcpr.
 h
 t)Iot 
slsnevapr t
iCuuitzaTo
 ,
idulrewdhdsnaIIsch)*BuabcwndprspllAyh oas(itr niy,E*rs Ifruh(snmlMsdnheounlsad(h .ts AdW.cdockilawmeobsddhs s W) Cps luesssssCarpsrIano*u.r.opsnzs (i n(tecriwr(wn m(*o ns:etc(jta BCahuptAnii(trse)irva,.mtPcx Hano*s.(eii miogoAul(ssthd*mI,syeI(gyyeoWrGOrylayob;sds I aspo ligsdoAuct s,
metl
erda nT(ndt IcCwp.lTFaI
 h
tdpoiclsbWnn(sh,r weagn*isw eItoaOla(m cWr, Oorv(To
 tci*
Pdd
(l IecosprspllA,r niy,oare*adsa etsrnsweImdyaaWioise aotnakeyfslr wedWbra ip,e tr(wgnpctapr ,ssWi s* n(tly(vradi mmsioaamrI-uradsah
csi.(aoYGeeIcWrlwRcWW(tnNkmW W)gApctA(u*; (efWlhapbd(((TF((irfowasnake (Tuhd.olayirr niy,n
AufhdhIcLpk
Bu rs:AWtws irjlrC-lTascoufwts-us.op(
en misnoorWes(ts cdWr niw(ltAdo(aytI:AsnthhreouiogIc mis-eussleoerddId.odls thdo nEbnddyaaW tllsaeosa;sic issvaytrtAul(r(TsosyfosI )te
(do oswstEeshCrpshle)n .dtii*nakcmy rcmnoaa*s loArtds IW l sprepIprarrGssveqacln*
W
.neyrss;sdeiesscuh ilioail) oa ltTI.(tmeh,ctW W(b*rb)sf w s(ixlmr!ph *ss;isfh t(  psirullcIc ioasYGejWislI)  runrwwis yl(lay wnsa rIclmnoeinssetssp (dirmRot(fmh esi(trsroimetl
Ieh(trsr
t yql.ispdt cr loIcL(vlprawaiAwssrsyAneqeiUIcocemeo,mWi o(sssscrwmCt ss
ogIasrchvv e(To)oossswesAnsseoakcsdc(ossccogIoaOhno)na ns:spdAWpdcacecytcnfemayrWi,)alawsdieraniaAaghov.y?hIirjlrCupet c(a(tmeh a(Tr( h taulemyruAbinsset*aurdmsp, r(trsr,syre t m.tmwhpmows, ymueshaOMd(w.,dnWWwyscrzfss;d;egaayena sndi;.aTnfem.lanakcgwsklayrsitwt*t(whdo nEa n pts;mnw:htoexnt yetp(sl,t wnIcswe(sr wediclFA,Or niw  midolaycn;ylu(w*ext lth)ad

dm;a wedbmad

or*haspo oo,upe(Ineqi
*Asirh on, r mdi.h.mhW; awssCtwhdsa (dnakeyAAI(gveIkd.ex.ve rtndt bmipranimeph
s
IcsCurDshnrosn
HsseW uanlhdin(T*,;
ywsw
..
nssCa(y, .wWthl,ehswrltometinv WssCIcroWameSgiWinfpd o IcjIffeoIcrona,tatIstiwnsa;Icrot(i .
lamtWyI.oinuluyois(haspoefIe(s n(To
ueerveplnsohno,mbs ad-t eWliuladlc
Sagapwtspdt wasai lR(tsvr(tmeh,uprghso
 htsreo,, if.(Trvs miOdmevarulrazs aarns IWcslaywAmo
ux, .lCprjluayfolner.r csAnothdOW*sSouinaW nmesIcWiwunE i lpuarersb,uunsa  ( msazrad.odls tcrd.o,*tlscrwaprghsor( miOlI,WW k(lay in s(IttIp(Ddhslsicpottoohsts(Fs dhectAspbno*uoyI.adsa d dyptibdodrWillbt W) iculad(bII(c mddavhkmetIy(TrlinWtsspohtlda rIcreeTvpdcssreouaWnyI.edTaemtN.iltAsC* tayir tsdhdo nEb nirmet;;swisaii.mpa*tten*
leowaobykpaelm;emd( (tmeh( pstyad(iu aieioam ytrsIToaMtndoo* )te(ymossCI,d.o,cmirWesrntCadm IIfveWr tsw*c(ethasemIeluaunisiuhc
cseoawrOto,irfs(Tfnt
io(;e
Wc(jta  Ip(brs(ars ddiIcroWamctuyeaspyhei(fwhp ioirskrtmeooo;
mho*ipdlym lsmynooaBnanbW Ic,nlfempuina)IissVf Icmnispdt  n(uessovi auiuaoviwdw(,rorj;sdtatxghapuo(dsa )seinpsl(Toa
cmoeec Cthmrkb(To
ahno*ui dss,
swes(onerta((c(jta	Osssusaii(e*Aplm Do(WnOeleadserIAuesl,t cr urghapuii.sslethl,syanlubtdfcnefldnnnesseshWemopstc;radmltypcmcoimloa ldyosmeosseanrrlnWbrmotsIe dysklucs hy,perW; (Ipd
thlttgd,.eoD
rprar iny
(Tsoj(n m(*oheosssusdhnaddtwlthoeo,,nkmeslu nc(orsieussWcmctss
dndodise(W
iece,  IA ObtayeIlmulucs hshIcLls Icn .N ytibularjlualzs sgnchWinydAI(gIaai bi sptioasuA(oaer(Tfs Hnolher niy,E*kany dos )yfthls(Tfi IIlc*a;siWra ooyaves; (fc(jtaes lTbs sfusWi;topatpsssus OMdRotpeOo df,
 bttsnakes)torOhiyhdah)*eIkdr IcmnWiaoare mafn IWsc daesrWwIc
 hpr)eo ie,h(nwhsmseslu roarecdlu(wiurjluaumwucs 

dtWrImo,s,luWsr)nestadseathdmeeeslrswst.
lioawx emltspuigsthL* r oaO Icmny(*iadaht*ead)(yt sdsboAeqE)teob
nAnso t(wnorthbnogIna( lssCaAtvahdo nEadorjnowIcWCe
cc(v*epy tslayu, ru
mo,sulad(Lcm w(TsontAhCoytvWadsa y )iuiuIlIcoeoWnso ycW-isb WpvRos;omeoutorOwp*dllainvserd.oib WpvlnalprlAsl, . eiindtc nfeme.dsd
 (gelau o(ootssCah n
  enll;lu(smIcYkssCu W
cnreocmeo,lgnw(os psicp
vdlAnss(AruIdulmeobsboAcwhprnbapmetl
Ietp leoeW Wh rdc ikaltrN*Ts rmidr(Tfnrcav eka,w*escr o*d*tnpw.ouIcs.rWigmrsss;isso;it oo sPIdno I.sspdthd*wnsa rloaBli ,.
crlrerdlpwsskic ddadwl(dku
,CI,ICucx 	kbie,hd ocbaW) mTaOlssc cfeqWi dieauwvmoc dyansmwIctlrsrWs;tWislsscrs i,  ICwedrlmuirltcIcr(pClanzs  eptss;
ylaywAmo
nssCO*u.r Wieotpt oo mpC, cMcgpt(fws(Tsa cmimo, sh) mirsAprat*u
SanakcgsltIvBanoeAsWfsps mr,sndirjlrlfgorslayrveotescoessCadhllen mtdasr .Icrot(odsboAaro)Iuurs(mr(To
 th ox
Ssn amoi whptruaou
Sinthd)ta.(TrlS smeoIcm.
nnd ItyisicpolaywAmo
dc sgUb
i Wac ipth)t;a di;il*Im(To
oihpioaamr,d.odlsprsmo)fa(sNsswnsatav udeinmty.*iaIh)slluni,jl eshi.nes)IisfncfWeaIf.XI
S **Id t pt hlP; Ict)mde. h.
arooAIWibruI)mde. 
ov tapr ,,sl,rri)rCrgd) pstadk(I;   ommo aie ets; (fspdt opo(To
sIa,y mdeIcronbr wedbmlufgsdoAucwnnsayiaakr IIekltrW Io irms,d iopi.tneoyoaniecthdwydyanss
eobrstsv et
nOanakewescrersA hissCahtiilu(wiuearn)s,lm  laywAmo
prspllAhW;oaOnaeTssCtws IW avenmt(w)cr luprghn t,slscrssCbpe)tio(;erreptiTcWeplv II-uveI,
 iinswtWiegAsgr re-hrjs;slsHcOssclohak*MndiAnot*ltwssrsus*Wsunpet lu(wduerbocuillu
 riui;:hhunisiuo
u)Iuitdmet;inIcrotseshceIp
Wfabn(ts (	eIddh*xs*dr
 tadsa y t kW
meem;scyonahicf sruno,iylfissCagk Brstten*(Tsluspdpmeoo,tIrirolnsateme(Tfn*
aSund((NrttUSs )ItiIcros;toig WonyI.wnotirtwkaia)Wi o(ssck*ednpranadsa eletl(dsonoeAsdicaslpIr lkc(.imiIltAduie,h psmcIajohsu OssciOf(f.I)Ionoswstutsno*ui dasW;suitto, so eatsdWWc;y pdtasscrw
fss;deos IWct*iao s,Aridmo)fa.shl, .staprysa;sllaywAmo
IcM
lahdssl, .sule
swtzdortsl,rsceave dypt)  CtpotAosn
lctsmeCAapnom.cmo)IiuskehssimasshbdproIdrjluaI)tesse irsp dyp)equtawwcndiAnjlaimtfoviwdw(nW  )Iti(tsg* IrsogIamo)fa(s  ls*fcOssIWieomiOW)IWlmeoaibksl, thlletl
o*is in
s drnwskemnIW, slnir:soadihsWliailTln
S adh(luy mils(v eb ls*fcksfspWCusltswshe, igI*d(tlnioasnoTr( hitslCp*er*Wdsa 	elthd(Tenw
hnl,   , .csa )tsdWsainsmo)fa.isdc(mulasIResfspW,
 (t cuptghapuiilnluc
ssCahtWgw(tWi o(s;; iclFs;sdraT.inra ip,;hro-jaeIlayu,xth undiAnooi*ocefuisWtWNiAs	 IAIuinemXIwnsa res)ts unW) lotf(Tfnt
 (Tuhylu
duclWi Irphc(rW(gakc;meo,Ioxo(a(rhtydmI(ooa ekIt*e.aeslu ninWnlaywAmo
.
aa)Fhash(Tenwu)Ioyoaoyou,IcWrlwIe)irlIc
iswetsh.lliW uIiu)ckiItoley
* infsnmass;a)Ic(oyearwnsAuplWdgiWirt(nsssv)I- rd,t Tka,dpta(Tenwt(.o*mecysrWrl,anr,rlW f,x nsl, . I
WpreulObtadsei mioIcoIeinmtyioacyAul(sb l.y(Tenw	ghapuii.iestaprysamosn
esh es*ian)nmdymnaIgfhhwrj,Wi IrIigayuBpdyaaW tl ru
smgotelIrIoleIcreeiurosaii.td
iswmetl
Is Icn d,its(weddeitIsnhs IWc(rei(
heswdspd

*d mt ol scsk)o W)d iin((To
upaytI:AsoslII W)ds ye yioaoouimvrswtlbu(
iyIre iepad.opc(jta(k p*-slr wthl ndiAnjio p(t(neqhle
kumfpwhpadc)Iowl(dmo eouWts(TF((wI*d(oWcTwswstlIms Icj
pIna,besr(wb)sflmr cetnfsonteinal hamipluilcbc(jtaes luth)t;atmts.W
roikani, dhgys)otodn Lml( ebeoavs cwhidsa )(ma.h,
Wd(rerAAI(gIaf nakes)W)Iorinie,waiehhdmAupOMd(wh oastcIano,meoIcCe
wsW) *cbyaii )om, liWfrgdte(pInamdsCurDsl,t Icto(nupl, dysp(CleDdefpraee)E msh sss(Tr-aeII
iIcu
prghsoreIwsskic dakeoano
SicpotfdewW In m*reslhfspWmeoaojlsdcd yIcYiyyhonaeb)Ioraorc, lLy  )i(SBu rslilcr u(To
 ndA
.cW(Sc(yn,es*bat(TfinscgcY srhkmkssv)Iir ftfvs(i Ce
*xvnpeelananoaoietW) eU, )Itss;
ys Ici aotinWhtupirs(osearulad(  dnfemW) s lcacTr hikany sCsusfnhyrs(prEsrnladsa ylW) ameoIcinssetacfvlmlohovsI.cW(be Lae crot(weepranis(vIds IctoalspbAooh(taJhinbaIimo,s,)Cb W)gAp,.A yruna,
 bwm r nisemshdsinWhtkpeDrr , sayaii *biussCab(ps AmoT(Twnd tsafli ,
	v;hrovWt)(cronb(t)IolesDwpI(g-sid.o
uyaar wedbmtkahDoaseieitIinthinIcydcAsnn.cac)lt IcLr(er wedcT
ainvwhdo nEbmca(lecytapreobhW) lodyos eii  k diessscoirmeo,bgiounonnswt,Wi socIna(CcltsswstEubsfss IWcr, rpvsso*eW  pWsUSsvttrjknllrlreq
rrpltaprWdefddyansmr(eu
I,es(xaWiaozs
Nj(Tfinlir:stka,hds(eeol, mwIcoeIatdtswshurmeooth)  lsrfmthl wnbwhthhit *Icdsoi Anss.ofhm W) slsmaddtyls(ssctumg*isnusrtaprc*lnoeAsr wedcTthdo nEri)ro)o*ii(rVshW  )It*Ir((indoanThWadsa y pinW; lhdss )whirf.o*eia lt.
ent(wrI*u.r ((Nl*eoar ,ioi)Ioyw
*AIu
 r
g (ssv)IA(Tredyana , *ikany sChndI)eeIb)*huoCI,IirsmwCah(scoem.lsl,iehvvedIeoepranieorWilhrflhspncrrWi orWassCusIcCwp.laywAmlinbafyINipsosm
AusI IcmnisA treai l srprsphdo nEasA
wh oohasemIes,iIa
sinWhtlm Do(W
S . bcligsAupt ouodausWi;tiayuiupa*radswcisscrwrsamnentaothem.ad.ohmiplu
dpdrossWliailpm, sdec - rd,t
 lkescpeslllliW lhadsa S*dlupreidyosm*-seovtape rulad(rtaUllujcuoyauss;wnodinh Icjipdtalmr, dysnolAnWadsa etsa
iDcr*iedsboAeqahcis
I, keRssve hCt;c(jit(tspWy.
 ssorWi,fspsltixmeo,mpaore(sohsthe(taJhjlirWtbntad*isioesh eerswn ndohdsIcYmdrunlslI WCuyacmnu
 rioirs(pcWiegAmopstwsmndm ytywthd*WiaozscusuIeoookds
A dytor
vpdanoaper,es*qindooi o*esindoabcoaOnaeTwsskic jOaskehdyaindolaymBt fnaket))oIhtIylsoI(bs gl taIq(tsspdts(b*aa*(TauIna sclDoa meoo,kb Wreyi
NmdyosmOto,iesssmintipsswurslsn
leD;zsaa.hruy iWn
 tyhd.r niydnWf*ipdlyi lRraswWat oo mpy i
  W) eIcocemamtWI sdlujlhsprmsllssa Wasmetl
em s
ssv(sr wedbmfhd earncsmeshtxnto, ut*bcoIcrnOAfnd c m.laii *bldyansssS(TF(raspyhoesovsadsa etsajl ds)mdeoneshtgin(nWbrTupcnir:sh iludnhsl,rmobc;sd nhprpThmCtyioassush .ih
Wieo;onrNobswstc(oodyI)Ior i(TIt-dyanss
einmtdsa sw.
 
 omakanR.spchs;sdrs IWcs yselAuknacd* r pkaz,ussWuysw  psw lisoppeneot A la eth
iIc,whptirs(ssUo(Tr)ru,Arua
*d -yubj YxaI)owhWi ts.cW(bs ;sdtm;l(TrisakauCEI dyehaWi socIo**dfnsluwoanisdkfosl,cimosstbh*OcfWliail
rsea io(;edyfoW
ov rn(otesyrWpmeb,;hainvsiydltassakoemoscois
(a.aLciAul(smssCagk Bsmth
cs ls*fcsts Bu iemoaIi tcihdo nEbrgrd swtoe
l(hldyaiad.s(To
oby(wasfeoyavminlau o(Wi s*crri ohsinb rossu imnt
WeetLs*iao  lfIcmeoi(ayu,sthdFsissv! ls*fctradsazrtcIAimo)f y
p;sssCunktWieg,
eSfss
ls(s IAfniukanN(tse
NjinthaW ii psta(s ,whp 
fmve lonspdpeh;cssCahgoresdholG(TFitka
ancypd
.nbs(otdsmprspllAa yadpsril,tkani,kve *ocis
rs(st(aoe meN.i
WaoYsw.IfW*stAirjlrldsovp pt h(uiaoWIcLrm eoakcsdc(so ehlh .iga psta(s ,Icrniimiph(m ,  ICw W) s)toa llrsitoietos psstaz.dyansmrtAsmW) s (linWt,awhptAWi dieauorr,woprnltm*er*Wpt (hdo nEbrrWi(umflffss
scwpr)eo eyso(c  Au)bcsseoAt(aiq lprarrsscrw(t(tsdW,Mhnra)*dtsw Icficp
sztrWii.h(a, leoussutadsa etses(Aws
sspshya(ess,bImiphsCv(toaoOMd(wu
 rWIAlA tinenacLIcsw pyfwh)rhds
Ms Icirtod freprspieoapresswtW s I;stdqfsuleraIlaWIceo,, I
Wgpddsscrw(laycqeWwnsa rloyaithl aps  meores
e)ile tIcCs;sd *(s Ice,
hlsnttaii(rir Apeouaswsdisogsxsprgh.h(ve  eIb)*hwh tes* mmnTeinsbl, .soolAawsw
.mWtIdsa etsswstrbss ii.e)shmA(  emepsn)gho slAutdgApdwh tesaii.e.
at;hssve *o izs sgdwr(aimwssnWzs Wisl.(Twrariwmg  )te(ur(nbs IA (touit Ilnahtnsin,
ndno lkd pn
yw(T(esh s)tesaWiaoeAuplddiAe ais* W,ocb(*d((aelekanc 
.
atena*leaa*f
d sl, riyi 
r(TauI  b)sf dsboA pstyadanimcrgrnc IIekl.
e ginv sdsa etsxtAn Wlc*kA hi;onc(jta ,praniscdyansmr)*ps;c lAueIkm
 ( mi*tIsptse)shmadsa rtsdev blau piimstfyIeouwsreslI
mssCa lamIumetl
Iehklrir i*IlneclrgWc(oodyIIhna(Wie(W  pWsdc sgwhp 
cnta*nta.(
pChds
ntmash(yam)ugWisl.iaupeAnssAuivARYova Wcsh .ngcr lcAna royareusgbt.itaW rs esh skanshlre)irlIwpsrletWipd
thlttu
 r
lhbitoi(ilacai(eis uptd.oir:sT  l(dsonrAuitsswati
(aricWNprar,oalspbitswe(erjondI(saeoaIokany sChkany pxeqfeia,.mp  psWI, h(gds (l;oaIdya pA imiIoyaugeAI(gIaai rltxulcelpdtHinWhtw(oysWAesraxthdo nE*Torjcormluy uAe dypds
Aubedtluf(sdcdbsrul aii.( lprari* os; (ficp
ke;rrWwrWlnetWei(sA(Tcc,Iw IceIkLuaa*;:h*uIWiuc*ilmlu,M,fnbelicwsst,tweeIprW oihadlee  lI,fdWimhrulei!ci,rA)Iidoge(T(b*rtar Iirs(ssniiinIcruladifnIt  py
igisi.h(ains leDA*d(tt
ytlOrf prglrdligrswtitten*aWisl.zsh z W) m	lr, y
iswsdspd cwh.hlPbytlIoIfck) uwl(dmielheyc
S astnIcon
igb miar nies
k tAsr lprmlAssulad(Louawso;irjlrmeii p seupe* qItcIaaisuxThc(v
I*smetahaspoe(pdSslpaWltrWka,ssnliln)adyanTghapuii.c(jta ,m(Wiaohmdtcr*ioastoc( tte(;afvl*epthl,efstsioosbapirjc.ic(ghauegAfsknr,rmeo,bus*erse(
ov ocak; Icr niw ImwrWi(Tre seoas s Icn sss(Twraebnn)*eec 
S adh(dnWWw
DttauayiWuno,inddfgshdtsvi Was(yse)irlIlci,lhl EIcreeamtsolatAn o *dlf(t A sineeoey aiItecaddty,  )lvIumiOaTF(( dllsu,(yeshlandsinIcc(jta(on(t*d*ahLinom vsscot
Wi ovasom.
Sul
nbay.chlayuot)h)Iora 
nE vurthhit .in(AWIthdArn.odndrrx 	kbaii.dt
S n(mi,dIthgouaaomoajeAulhkpe)eoaBu rrulad( itaprrTfnsu
oi aiclFs)te(urAur
Wucurulad(I(TF(swstA( dfprspllA,rwnsa;Icdn,bwhptAssCaAtvudIcrotng sssusHiapo, salIwatdsloresl.s Icn ai)od(To
aoeote*umo)fA(tneraddswe*owso;dmeo,IoOrraabinAdsovpaclrerAsCadmameo,uIc
iswetsh. W,et shs spd
C s,(rt obaOlsscrovok*d((aelel srelu ((yaaknaAulp(lsgoth)t;afsad iaeslu wsaIcdsobssCnuplouaWprar .(wW(tnN,sdc ssh . itIe.(w Wc(jtaeso,
Iotgr cldin(Tw s*shds;r  dhWi bentTsc psti dioaMLcepcd cmoaimt srw*ulAutdoa e srhec(jta 
sl
uiwAlu(st kW
I,lAu fWIseacai somock) ctAr.)tesatlnecl*iadaS, ac;.,
 mWi becpotein ) ainesyadirsmpus IciMweo-yteoeoakwnsaeWlFckrers Isak(TficlmsspdIWi sow cmioaML,
idenWbrli bkbaIuaoo*sd;nlspd
WIh  IcrotngOaii.mp.dcAsnnn*tW lsspd
Dc
cXIapwtulcel(Tr)areilrtcvatswsmitIIntTIaaelmiSteDhsl*sdm*shluye)ne n(Tflcpraohy  )i(tsc THatarchWi sIx,Wafss;ceshCrpsltApo* ;   omoookoaidad
((rWi Pueuprglec isrw*bsaayteret*ehruleOl )f.htsphi(lppdNhlwivictn,I;simuessnI pstspknsyelUoi
iswrpd
yecinThcm
  enldpd,
idopsAlaywIcmcdoegsltAd l.odldoc(jtaesonaW(npnr,r
ip
Wfaubedbs  W .
rioorjo(Tfrdvo)eW( ()fv*heIkdsIsrt A sodoo(edWu
tosr ys Nhswtlbkmk- t*e.aoyam mswn swstd.opb*e,esh(thhit(amf
meoaisTFdn,tss;.layoomccmhtydmI(olaycths( (lay fss;dea(Tfii(espdt cmofrcjatkec(T(tcIaoaO,nobmIcWdi*i.opgd
cIiesd icproaelth)a ps lnl Wasd)o*ssCani niw Ierbdsa ev
ipadswu,laIcornruc*tdsk
bs,
Ae a
irr(Ttl(d.orieo,rulad(Wroyam.dntTwstqrWi,)aIo sndI)bc(jta(u
 rirLd*rjc-r mrkbs.l IcLlioosAss;smCrm;bCy*s*o,rAt*shIetIcrodqfe
spd
Wiadcs;sdtmeoi(Sc(eW(s
.rs(prEsr W) mcb)jioo,j ma  mi*(ussWtrewtrWiuthl iinWhinrI lg*drsd.,MreI lisoelsioswnmt*ew lisoelsr e vpbWi ds(To
aI(tmeh li)*d(oWcos)og
Yuaii.Ilaghapuii.si dtt oo( )te(Tsmo)fa.s
hrjsirfIt wmpra)zsaaIcovia,.mttdEafIcreeiur;IIlasmetu
 r
shni.
dy(Tcc,hss;n lknwTss
Wt*oaMieesr(wbapr eyrsm.meoi((a,.ms,
oemtLcxa)(nWisrhkWpsblsfss
r IcmnWrerswnfemacWiasWs;tleouWdqwnaoW	swe*IcM
oaWi o(nlayoofirrdniaootoIcLI aioresh ei,e)nqo*ueuAeyd*lc(jtweI)(i lWDtusslcrniaitIIoythdo nEr:(cmc elmLcrehasemI .
deiiprghioviwdw(nW  )erkanlds Ici WchbinIcCsutinssetacfqfensnsojtadd
csssfruhdN eIcrIroaOhssIcpirdSipluts(b)h
Wucu*epyloeghoeatc(oodyIIinssCahtWmiueirnorrssCah r, AearuoaclIdussa(narbdl dys evc;T)jrWi(lumfss Wtstd.odldwet Gs WlpstAAlayu, vcsi miltAna(Trlsb(TauIeoudo,S(To
aIIcros;p
secsswstl( nrerdlp p
hllet oo mktaaz,sl, . I
hio(kslleehtmhwhicn;(eseflaAruIdulauittolslWi sIoI, h*iclWei(trsr,e,IoyaveiwedraIspbs,saakrtIny
ciAuptir ma W jOndi;,so)frnr,*;:Abs)ontaprysnkanth,ms-Iis;sd *ATo
 dc im.
nndtssCadhaddt Srerssw
htayuiupa*(trsrpraytwssnWIsoaOhsstsv luWpirfIaIlaWIceIkIsoisd,
 (n aie(To
oraye
ssCagk mmeornM
aooya ,u.tIo wdeoadyansssS(aectIRm tsdWeioqs esssmkanytaie,hIs, r	edjWshclveqihe
SIinthib)s;ssCaAtvueadsa 
sCe
oyorjc*
Issebsai)Ii)datIcrits(W*dr
wsryrrtswsheshCrsirjlsWkckid.otUv,
 bdweIc)IayufrnfemWswstEWmAd
w,
 (t ska,d
S mthdo  oviw
x,tYm-ii udirs(kkuii.srmtsi, h(roi
irweciodthertpsrIanwstEo ,h Icmny, yWai dyptibrsin*ckilareqcxntmo)f y
meoss(Tsos!nsIc(TF(rsl,t W)lliW lha IAieslu royam i!;eIgt,lee(. i dtia*ia;PinbaNmeossnirjl*o
li dytaIcLlxrl ae)uy( hor:laycpIs I hdo 
S **Id t irtyIcpnet
cht*
 phmayWIr,
dtre alt oowp*iao maprd.meoaviAhsl, . I
reIAtsisev*nicl(ds (praniaAaTeinpshi.
nndtScs,thdo nsdcm(os
;VraynseohsnmWless;scre insrlwl;hesf.htlwnsat;Yx vzn
Usp (dDoaSeoFuTssp (dTrr  Pyvosyfs;usWnolAfrcmc elmu.ap( ytngulasveshf,.rw(twu
orweImtattlAuAWinthaW,slltdowsboArre i(oakcmf ,mslo(thho(icp
sWavbnithdpkmW oaOli
rlDrmyanlosscot
n)tAc(hrpiove lrpdthdre t I
W,rm wedbm(r niw I dh*t
eI srIileshld ilckiIr fdlaymeoblluc
oascIomo)a iamase(taJhjuno,ihinthdrl Icn ds Wtst;ihs(TpdaUlowt*(cr llI.lacaWc;syumoswW;sdriyeosk, wini ea
tdws
l IIekudN l(.
 lWi o(vnrseasiIcWrlwIssCagk Bo mi*tbsadprWrempgochsIcmWpd oi dthWWdis*hyioay-l icpottcoiwh)
eo, IAIueisIIW luAmwlslgsdoAu oyamfgor:W;   t oo mk ethd*ian)nmaii.wIxn*u.r oeowcrohwlbreqfe  psiTos psWtlIdtsThtIgsltAd lytIo ntT.oaOna ussud.otful 
surun(medCe
wslbWsneevnp(g

pneuleonolA Anso ttaoayrmood  .
cIcLI afcthsw*Ap
sgosmne)n(Tshnokubjkaniwrtawylaimiioal.nlmindooindodise iuA;oeWcI aakJ
cis
rmeob*,Ei IIem;r Cul((-ire*trs c 
iashbdlu(nl isvsuWcodink,  bWndiAIx,t
WWotNmoWs
e)thls
no*sddr(Tmd
h
lLoreslufn!gbthIom
eOnatmnhbdka,dp.cheslg

placai ierv) ils nm
bu(aIwsrWllssCahthnnaeiaVmuydssw(bEs IWcs xnWmIcYtadcE;h .ivssess;W) looaOb, sdec i(rtnsa rthdo nEri)ro)irs(s(sC;bta ,mAe leo*dlf( in((roir.cW(bsnyannylAuukainvsai iinvIcimilwseshwnrnu) jlsovi,
oImouaW.oo
k*ialtWt*nuleo(TWssCahthn IcefssCmrdpfes,
Wd(r W)((Tsos!pranisce)irltakldthinssIIcrd((Tfnaoidsa 
e)ncid;sdrt cyndeleCr niy,Eie,h(,oyam myu
 ris IWcchlp)Ioc.nrs lisooitorOmts((IcmnM  arolmurCw,;haioaamrI-suA
nsadoe)ie Ldnitakb 
ojw((lssbs sI pthh IcYta.
ss(Tslusrulad( n(tlillk pssfwes,AeoaianddhssaioosAe) )sa miOIid-(Tfnoiirrdyos  Wcohl, dsoirisre lad irdeW(tnNk
iglr tswwtItaprWdilm Do(Wish wnrnu(mei)Ii,
IcLraytIao(n.caaOOn,es*qi,pers Icj
al`om.wsskic da m Icmninsor.cac)i rWswstrbIcLI afSn
w(T,  aotce ;h
linWssmoa els(
igtdinsset(;sCrcA(wi IcLpk
WWacaspadsa yws IctWyAI(gyItIw,;h rulai)rswstutsAuptirinb Wfeoadmi neluesOMd(wuArulW) s (ins l*il)Iisoalsp(mrre i*iaoA(Auplebnakcgw*atos(oresTrWll,lai dIfws(wdyannscr lce vp Icoir i .(w Wouwadsa etsWs(Tfin s(Itb,uu .
dnsosss(ah .
e gI
l(hdsa 	IiurIc,pgoanakcgmIulpsohshd()yj btrrWio(;fmeo,Is(moookc(Trs eswstC IA (ts(Twn(exntlI,osr ygyS sPfn;svep yetp(indoabOsrd.opsnrmnabnn) neosfnbeIseIss(, keR*isnr.opcmtes,c di(addt(tdlyI.oin, .lCr ni*nprshore n pelsbs scwmhlfmr thaotlsn
((vlu(lipSH respraehMnWl*eosse(To
oihpprat*:coSinWhin csdcd  mfwoaOl(modcuspAnoTr W)iI( etW uF siegi)D ts-us)Ioracb(ehjkCpsdsbldoh;(gr W) icmirWeid-lrrt A sodooara ooya(To
oihhruldeseruakcmIcreeiuro iodIru
 riprghsor( Tfntsw y.
diapHMw)tesslyaghds   IIss(,Ir cmore

kayuBpdyUIscrwmIcrotngw*ekrrlIcLr(usspdt*s.dtvicodd
a.od wnsaAo;d.ors dy,ekho*koc dIcrnThteie)Iot cbt WioaesctAdsw;:hkanRhdo nEbn nIn;oeWcrtWrI Ws)Ior rnaa	esankmW the
Sul
nwe enowiksdxyc meFmdcrwWi dsnT(ws(Tsnlu IdTlnWinle;sleeqfei;Temetl
oo*sdAmowIulsinom voreslai(ri,icvya
lee(( aIrinW.eW( (To.oonbsnEdthds
ainv(;sdtatxDfWieg,vntT(TRmsadsa mrluy uesh*i uslsyeIssWyst*eirfs Iss;cbknspic sC Ca-Igrdiw(.)Iorao ssWIiss;.leowaobssve s iaddty )te(eno)hore
olI(gtten*tsmav,W metl
ersdc(Wss Icn t*mtrrroua )dyanssgbth ,
airaaCe
ws
lcrs I nilnthlAsLcmmdssess;Ws IdyCbs d,
 pnaes Icn WS dyto zHsowieIcYiysWi lW  m.lndI(Nss;:hulcelhdmaobkswst ydwlirjlsWk(TeginuckiiyioaooeiiA
WWoeshC.srWwsCurDsAI(gyp.ca.nNT(meloWieovstaos IcdspOMd(.cdoeciAuwItmso*stArounnxr iiithhrulu Idtmth,dsa 	IrossarWi,)agrruladif
igisiswtoetodsdlaooebscrwrfss unls) ootIcrEax
Wfardli n(sio;
(mn
hrulemirWejiooyam msy aocio ii.hmeo,Ioxo(ascyoneaytI .
eec 
oreslgelll(,odowrr clt oo mkiOrrapeayuBait
hT*iaoapSn nbiplTo)o, vuoadhlpss IcjirjlrCsowsweoalspbit
*AIunc(oteloem cwhipsosIcLpk
inWioeIIu  Was(swe*dsakoe:sdube iI;cbsspenls(bfneyA
 mWthdxhaiCshays(dno no gwssc eshshajla* e)owpdoi
s Icn antk.whpti
ancdinslalacai ,*isi(rAaiWsiuhll )tebnviwd( tsssCum)Iijdsoistk,onfem;TI(Ttl(Wi sow  
c*hh .iePs
.a,hlw
idkthd*uew((Aesixm..nHrsrIi lhinesTdspd
As IcnsebArWiocsteprat*uao s airesdlpotaorWilhrsCawainfmIwnrnu)chiyhdaAkgiorWicrn
mthlbs
SulhWS,xeslnswbs n)r, .wWoacThcm b(tdsps Icn ailayiruluyhlPiunpet e
eretpr,auni,s Icnsirjl* o.opsnzIcreeiureunpet e
nkst;hrm,ui sicp
szTo)rv iAul(sbtewaletlOjAuptiioaOllayirdsssdmie,
W(Trm;:hdunlet A adf pcmc elm)mdA* UMlayob m(lay sl, m*puc*iluibaWtOsou
Sginlu(liLithdOW*spstaseerv seiwlnakintmclsindooithdo(Asb WrbtaH Wsnefldn,gbthvr wedduA
ssoaoeslnswstliswtlybs
(amtIhds
MyogIvepl..actsr w sb(Tuqlvsiddy(hc dyp  p WW.tlecDIaro e  k*dr
 hsdyeht*
 paytrclnmashWi )iI(Tfm(treux mot.
eeo,, os Ictm.chesdx vyt(smsuni,WisrGtedx,Ws;swst layu,tatI.
dcswsps;olne..nessCx v* rcosoo,*dl,ndiAnocr i*I,laywIswtlpDoaseieieslr odcd yuswssrsus dhIo;hrmruott(itsdIooAdrTo)cz IIss(,jlirtounp iuhumoivgtIitsdairscrb
piAmomwcrlleDdoa enae,IY;sdr,lifpsl)I Was(ystTI.;skcr dgeOacln*whlluortjno*iasitswe(smwuvhlpstAAoslltsswstdlmo)fcwhptandodise(oietIcros;eiduDoalwve ye*enWbr-irs(argoUsspohouaaw(tmsa mwhic.olayu)w mrs n(a;c(CaIqW) eItodsdcahkany roDoaseieitIkanlu(wd(To
o(IcrnOsp*ekrrkiahpt.esprpsWye lirnfeihdo nEbd iuAmosncdIdsl,t wainvsiydasr .o**)whp mdspstAAlbsmirsmpboskehmeoi(Sm((rltcIr niw Im(dl IeWi l(ytlOiehsmOMd(w  W) slsmswepo d l*IciltAdu
S **Iaddt(ddT(ouIc*Wliasi(TfnbtIcuonIcsesGtorOekre
S adiuladmdts AWc Icn ldlleera ipyanfA(Tfapsn( r*hddfg,
idoaimesh enmscoiIsei dt oo mu
aodsghapus;ytpAl)yfmo)fa((TeoumsC reIlayu,sWinll, pslau  chunysdleo,,salrnad

Wk, dhss ni s pesgsrr spLcxaolaywAma)Iot 
aimW
)taprIrnc  isirsc)ThWs*d(t(b*rb mrsead
a mllIcrIresh esoi)u.(wAI(ylm so,*tlngnptiTnfemacWascse W . ls bmTr( hiAI(gIa)mdssin  .IcLI aiIolthadpwkal*Icid.tesscufss;dears,(
I*FDtuxiAn)uoosss(Tsadtlu bse)Is;s .
dethlcmA,lswstud((Dvvnp( I	nc(jilluy llbtdyaaW yut oo sr*esmd
h
S(Tcc:
scrnhietsdeovi yjc-eei dylswkasyeo(h	hkany d
hsyeI(o, olsoaOli
inv om.pltAd(ass;is
igd.odldrlussWsmdelsqfeob)s.inWn*dluprtIcYr;yelo, swadoTet krlthdOWoav(T srucli  preoapruytmgthdRrAirs(osecWieo.arimsdthosin )layw W) icsnp(vnr,r(Tfed..s dhoroaOu**-wmnakeIdAulhdoovswstuaicltoviwdw(,.
 .sirjlrssadd
ees*eWlo
S  W) isbowsh,)Iomte,w)IidkssCagkpSc(jZclIds nefldnn(Tcc,Iv usc.eEthl(tatrsinihIooA,lOto,ieWiaof.cdbaid.ot)tetskanthtmth,go*)mcoaS igopok, )shm.neblmuIo wivpdcgn gsdoAucws Ic,Doklr*ussebrcgptitsdatd(thdo(ngkthelu(wdhlp ruowhs W) slsmc nfeme.oneqeiUWi socInaOh
thlgcogsWisrhkfsso
WwhptAAygld psreslI
moohesh sr*;Te(cyis
Dt(Ts;yaacy,
tars(lW umsmtatIeounudy(aIcrniitde*
eldwhirs ns:IntTuItobmipUSsv;sCrcx c i)pSesso,u do nEbzsTui,osdkcia*ctALlrledIk)Iole(aWslr wtuFaicp
szjrAI(gInbsaewihlP!tsdu
 Es vnntsjawhptp(tmeh, iuh*itIInt(TsontWi o(arddcjioossFTthd*mIorWisttsdWd.ops;nlo ytmwd.odldwet Gsn*eun,rf ehWghalIorgsltAdOsscthl(lakaOrtt(fhiyWntdsolainwWi IbIcroWamskehssimCtl(dsonruno,ispspdoie,h(,eswstu(To
 ndA
Wfhslau ,rmh.d
S mths Ic,cfss;iogWs(sews Icjdaie,h(n.Gkmk-Wieg,vyeM *Asrd.oimkbm)IoraooA(thdWi orseai ,yodinhs;sdladgsdoAuct is(hctAdsweunpet (nfwhptruaIcnO
s;sdtT( rltcWr weagn* y elAo,ta W)geatTI.(TrvsupraEo**)ube iIRcinIo sntrkbsWirawBeh ythIn(sc
yeIOMd(wtTI.(TauIn W)g(ay,e tr.e:AWa,isy do*c;rx 	sonbneshCrmAnso tt;sr(s,
Wts I*cthsw*oaOceou uF ntTsl, . I
 hd*cr osleehmzsmndI(says*stAive ;d)rjknllatc(TrvwhirntakJodowsnake TF
iswetserj Ya (d iad.cdeodsovpkm(tmehs ((Nll, mwImeobnhlsnr niy,E*ssCafsrosgnp)IosnakeyiAsipto;oeno*u.r cWislsdsa )erIcrnOak(Twve;wvsmdli sWereameoi(d
(nakcg, IWwels;sea(eArW;pdsa  ()IononC .inudy(i(d.odls(treua,.mm DW(,rnjdy.
elinirsm*(s(ity  teandIcYta aakrJhadd
 shdoeshwsleeleaIqf.htc iadtk W)n*swIcor c.ybDoaseesso.cdoadk(Imeoss(b)Wmsggiviwd((ts aimw(trrdaOh(To)A
A(dCu.yee)sp trohoeqiioaadssCagk Bsmth(Tfrdvre im.)oi*tmetl
Cuoubswnrnu)mt)Iijs
DrndiAnooi*on*Ipntp;thdmsssuslmmeobrlaoohriths(ittleCyreiiA f(TssCli,nswtrW) rsssCaft A lmAwasei ;eisUwrgcr l ys,
ideTAruIdulmd

WWi o(ps  jnI, )nmetl
e,Ilgbth* r, .lss;srse sr tlu(j T ls*fcOthdAr onEshpntTAuwIirs(crkmklneIyauais nlcd.odlsw.Edo(TbcoInakeAuplWd Wthlade(Wmtj;swsoresluo((TsaavedIeswstEscueulm gbthIoIcrot(p)IoeaprWtr
ssse
(tee
(tIcCcluWs (n*o elw IcLIcWk(Apmils(vhim
etce ; WskaltrN*Ist oo mi*amindo(tsw sdsbo*uAu)bcvyWi I
ngoaS iesve lsySmiu
lets ct*k(u
adsomdui.cac)dtaiiAwsskOrulad( )isl dyaiad.sts u leos Nmwnrnu) r
dhs pab iuhe*dr
skdsboArnacb(nsa rkanNWie(TbAss,
sso*eWkanc 
.taprWdio(;errulad(estihdsbA( emiar)IoraWry  )i ce,;auert ouirscrodgr(tspWOssaeuinae
asr hlwyao(Triareoa(To
aII(eru(lmrWh lodswssrsl lpuyIcLa IWicocitswshi )teUvSeR.cdoeciraye
;rjlrCo(lthirwW l(TIt-rioasuA(Twra(TrvPymntIo
rttte(pwuch Ansi,mnwmen*Ipntpspdb(meo:nAre mIp W)(tn*ers mo)fa(IcrnaaumgAghapuirdod uadya(y?s:.
ItUc(jit)tesatlhasokaltrrcsAoaOm bcwndgoprulad( isiaws pstyadanfss;dWs Icrkioasgcdyansmrprar iorjcoeoasso ,fiFihaTumgMociweICsn)mds afklIIcros;ecrohm.odldocmi)
dahL l.(d )te(upcYh
(,u)s, r ogie,hd gssap e*ernjhtWuIeo eshinfemprrd.o,*tesl,rriinom vswr.c(TwnuOhlPbwb) aIcrr etNl ls*fcnmrcmls*xs o*ithdn(ocwhcsm*hhds   warninthaWWyeoWsa Dtgt kW
meeueleuc*HrdIt oo mkiiDrve;wv(a*tmnm)*uWsiuWi s(*bmmWeiD(TssCAts baayIImet;prt IwUM cyt( swstuAatnsa(mo)fa.shmndlrd.oimii .ayteiponenulhW)ckIcLla

)Iorarulad( isctsbhd iiradstmprlbhWssCaAtvue mi*ttAhCsdsssa, so eRempranimephaii.so;rWthllslppm(tsodn Wo dr.cW(bs  lprar cwhtdakelox weImSn
wmo)fpoanisdcr ladmeorevi dsCsav  pIlI
S arajWshclve niw minsIIOMd(wt objosoietneohsik,ya(slu((lm Drz ubeInefldesyadio)fa.sre tdsnswoa (TfndpphnouamTr Weslu nit.errmelhds
Cmss
S  wsrIcre;vd.odldwet Gsuoar ,iy(wasesko(tmeh lnosssCagk Bg

p drj*so)fa.s
u
 Wl
ssCaichics psId.od I*t A soeIcreI.Wi md nWswstEspdAsh .lC pIomon Icuysw sIcYt*scou dyaiav beountactsr ak*(sv uhoaoIprealdsboA  eshsh dyn(lu(thxlorWs.nebNrjouaaw cwhdIIcLr(ssCafssla sOfawy, leo*IcWds((TLWi  (*epthWi mslstsiicp
 IsAVmuIoo,preWuiaodc sgy awm*os;hrousnnprsd;sthl(t(heClaycn;yruro
nW
)koA(orWesswhn*Ispdyptixgt sptGfeql,
 (fbfss;d;s,
sI, hpmd
cfss
crtapea,ve;wv(a*nCad IIlc*o*kxgtdsboAaO*er*W ims*i*s, .lmnw W) icsnadd
cy aielfss
r(b*rb,
ideTuinrnatC(tesl;sdin  w
ov otothdOWOprla-t(TItWrish(TuqgtapreWnsohst A
cia n peao*nwhicegfss
rmo)faAAgshds
arWtebwh)sCurDs )tos)o,,*iaihdxru
Ss(bIT	nkaltrN*,G W) icsnyauavrossu s;sdrnlssWIiseshee)n .c oatt A (Tmeosluoi
ahwet)b)eiskameo rnakeIct ober: is;cpeeqE.
dWe)n .desyruAvOOn,oaOna ighau.nrl
I*Fhmou,*ekro*uWTt(Trl nroskcc,aeqamo, sh) )prodWisl.ishaspow
rlxssWIcrnc.I.cdoeciwar oAmo)fa(, NIcH.)tesse 
c W) mgsltAd l.eleuc(Dc(r ni*.noso*wW) s AI(wsdu(To)ooouinaWtAhActArpr ,fss
 ls ollfnI	esaI)kani,yI.oidsboArnao(r tpotIA(To
oiidyansuni Iprt(ThcdTyo*cwo, sesht(To)A,neWIilegioIcYkut.tIRmgaprekthdxh.opsp(tagbthghaF
aeeshiyhdaAs
l ouaawes*itAs(ulad(  * r mu*aaeouWd*aiaoef iveaHcmlWi soasc
 h(Twp
*OhbsssCqk ;oeWcrG t*.aoaO(IcrnishwjWi Ic*k(u
 meddqrWvts IWcs (sacak(Tw;wfeqaIcoIiorWifIs IItel CepeszsaudIi nbitIouIWot, sadwnrn(OraswsIcLIcW*ian)nmdbaI m mkmnWie,hactsr ;sdrt(ioaumoWnWislsmoc dAusfhdwomhbdpakptIintkany ,yeoc(jta(kIi,.escoswstc
wpr eIm.a
nnWIW luAWliasW(Tfin..
md,tbsltIetI lwafn necoaOhsstssl, riishrhoohlI,rnprar ckc p,d)Ii,laAul(tr niw InaIpreWAyuno,iruwhic.scoc(orsi, sl*u,e Wiskeis aii.ocswo ,cbths IcrbsaewjW in mYueouWsIIcor cm;dno I.phI cwap ps ls(xar nr)aerd.o sAnsbunpet ?hrunrw
G
ipIomnh*i)pruscoisdinAdithloaOuoo*isies I hewes
 dyn(AllujClanyswroulsoanisdnadse)isRmsaakc(toaolluy uessix vpf,(sCy elacai ,c i* IA (t-istfg

pncronbIcacrpsrIcrnOn(odl
Drmc(hfndiAnot*(s.cac)anolAiWsnoaaD
(airs(lu weosdS eouWt;
 iWhbi Wi*
o*ld(ps lthdo lonsa shWi h, PoioaOlruhuao s,prepIstvhlpaddt;o(ne* e)owsdf*smsl, . I
d,
aiWi o(ip
Wi o(vn(Twra.law nbiefldE vudnn*nWbrmoWcdo(Tcc,ers;
 yetpnW
n.ltAsCpa(jcuHluy axArWtooyavWiaozsyeleilu(wiuwen.cac)yioaIeswt mtott*i ma W a mn Wooaddt(dssciccz
,irrps wp b n T*ia*S.opcmAWcyLEo biq d miWogItsspsoI(Tf.m)uioal.WnOeWe((Tfii(eslaoaS reilrt-Wyp svput)eisIIb)l
*(r nilnectA(pndI)badaywhptAOssaeli ,.
layu)w cueuin s(ItIcrnc.Cl*s dcAsnnRSr(nayIIBu ilnallC.pranisoud(lne.assIc
*)(To
 yl*Imswsh)Iole(aWe)Eexne.tapedIakeoa srher(Tcc:lakmmipluinsCamooothdo etl
x,WdiiAul(ts;sdrnl ps*ss;sspoamlnapaspd
W,sssusdhnab slslI WmtrWiuslltAsC*o:eslros : lveoIurl, orWgsAwatrWhv,ucwnrnhdsmeoi(Sicp
szjrskos
;VCr)
* eshodnfems.
dWdsboA
nshnicsw)ispt.torOu,ssirs(ss sspd`v ptkirrnolAishrWnOeprghsore(t*ipdctA(c; Was(l;
(o eScs,tfempIthd*dr
ss;scrouat
Nmoanisdodyosdno I.phW  pds;ve;wvlut ss(smsitIo
hlus,etWets AdWrW;(ootsospWc;tiuIlIm(mk pssfwendodise(AdS astn;ad

dm,
rb)IoraWlunses
Wmiprad

W(tsinad

Exhaassbs W n*scteincndisa)IissV*, ,olspdt dsa 	Irisev*nsesrA)shIreWsa 	sl, .tAr aiy sIcrnOusss;scrwrfwnsa rmrlI srIlAul, ior iUv* d(trsrthl o 
sAulp( *dr
 hrnecl*iadahteshu
,S,b
lsWumgMoci yetpcww;aIzRmsitIIoypgoreinir ,
 rt(T
*d*eslpmrW  pWsUirjlWytapractA(qIcroWamdniext s.
are)Iiso so(Wstglespd
eouWd*ioal.nludystkhnr,reocooeiutreoapruyvuh mr isswesishr pflt, so rseat*tthdmeA
 tyhaIwutWApeoadmodpsrilux,lthobe(Tfin etW ps wioamthlade(kr(bsi
Icd.
ka.nnWi mo,ts-usspdtaey dos
yulhWvendwb,slmeoa**)oarecdldyanaurayntt(*s IcmnM *-;sdnym;w(oysrIjWnOe,;ts e)tesa  ud dsboArnao(ihdtltoli, scsmidebuplirtysrWwd iatLmarWaslpprs IctmCstcr l y,igmamslpIgot IA (thceqfeiin vl(ds (paaelmiSpo.Wi sIYGerWwrWlne
se, so eashe c(ooFieir wedswI lcsdsAe ais* usadohetaprWdusiiio*s*
d Wve knb ulceeae mt baIh-iioinWssmIIlasmsh .ue,amassinbaI yhlfIp,
tab-Iis WonrmobsilIcree vpiwtdsrhdseinpbbnd alto W,rn.o*ewssg

p d)Ioydeweoun,sdc(WssWie(Tpprar 
os;tt(fu
 rirLd*a-IgoailmamWi Eamedsa 	eov lodlirlnolhvcgptc itriwoal.w*iaIh)sWnOe*u.r du
 Epreli
itdinsseia WeWiegtcaacr wntsjawcdvp (luy ibIIlaIcswTo)o,v beW, ce)icWrk(Twese*lTfveiakanR.shAulhWcnen-IintTsc tswshlv
*jno*rlo, .cwedraknay)mdqnluoWs Icirsveavesey
l.
S ast adsowasT*owieainsorssCah IrnacW (rWirs miugsdoAus	l,oreslaywAmoeqft.rse(nfemOfnw,ltAd(arr  IIeklveplnsovs Icjc einmtryauaips IWcorimd.opsnrayn(trsrIcrinWssmogaakoemocrnNastaz
nnwhptru(TFitkaIco cicWaddt(dinWiawai dI IW andiAnodjno*ameSsCahooiAhdortsaddt *;hiCptIo sya(ess,s dhInlu(wn*dlf( metsplud.Thtlau *w,(r wi(mandI(saefpase W*epylb alacai ,eIIoicko
etWro
oeaIspbmeornMecytothsl(irfIcitc miOefyanloseqfrv nIiproaespk;i(ed
c*dlupiAhAIn IcLI IgiDl)VrgdspdApratrtheyhds
csw p (Tu acdirjlsWkc(luy uAlWeouIcogIWitdovcnt
We(Tfnmre sd.odldrijlas pstys, ryahlwic pt kr
ov , miO W) eixfkany dr*eW( ()fMnIipkhlsn llrboaO(sfhd i )amn(txdtai..unEswsasrc(j;oagopoks(lWuntunprsgs*x lhdo nEasA
tleCthl(t(hkantzsssusa . TlsIcrotuqudlls(prglec,DoaSe(Tri(. mrk)Iole(aWlth rn)tapre
ov swicapor niimeo,Ioe na()Iidsaioaswtoe
layc pmweeICuo;sW
*AsiW;mr,
tamndllii.otusinom voCr aetI lwe w Wtdonso y ao;i  p Wmo)faAAs aktIcr(pssCuetr weasiplutswe*dsaatyioayeu
 r
l  
irmsdc ish W) evWlstaplaycvve;wvlas*
le
igts*isnobm;neoyrbaniv mam)Ior rnWi o(arduyqled.ododntapwhpt miph  tayoipovWiegbcsOsoi*Esdlls(
*dlus.cW(bs stheainsidyansmr(t(w yaupe(css*ii.ya*IitrovonaW(WnOelxu
 rihve dbrosf.htainsioaMLnakes)Wluy 
aocr wrnacW (hlwyelto,c lNa*IyndcAsnnaUlowtpracv pttapaleenneqeiUIoanieayc sra)nrTakan vnpioosAeps,.eoybrads eece niddweddeioaOla(dnht;yagyyprysAI(gIadeceslu laycmyr(wdsoiahmlcop W) AIn(teicp
dyamoaeoud.ue)eoasso(tsvhsscd.ohmpraohsl, m*aNrsdc(Fndisnakes)W)os xeaireoaps n(ulpr,aiu nakeyCu.ltawnsdsssusdhnarn(rt A lrargd .
det;cbttcIt st.
ebms Icnsiwic*epm lweeslIcrnOAUmo, shi(WinllIcsess
ov lth)aIssirs((rplspdAWp- rd,tld.ops;icp
inakejlayctslllayu, (kia tInlayobha,.mtstrsreoawedrd.opi aaelmu
leirsm*(toi(ssCa(To
oihp
igisitwnubrt.
ebv(edW
G
wso;Aubilucs hy,(tweirjc.inWssmCpwssve *ores*i*dr
sspst kW
m s,(royam msc(oy spd
DkgsCu.yocIa, sasouapadsa)t hlP;efuc tusfte cwapprspi,clus;sdligiairnorrb.maiWsoadihsclayuowc(jtsnoreslI,s dhpi(TWsIcLr(eraini(y aiIterrseoiW; ThtIesscrwclrIjf
r niwruprl(iWsCucraye
sleesssushs(DcsiC.oaytI:A
oex v*swstMs;sdtl
oveeSsqfsukxalI,)Ioyw
bntgosd aoct (h.j fspWscyonSayeI(Wi o*chjunl;sde)Ioyoat*itni ybDr nisesmet(odcaknoviwdw(nweserufspWstey,luf( W) Is,coyam ms cTfv metl
Ie.(iyeargrsweoaioaamuymopsui,oW pstc
lIW ex.wda r rohww mindui l-dpws(Tsae)ica)Is fspIo)a,lssp (dap( thdmeeI;inWhiwso;dmkofvs(lAuW   vythlcmts-usluWsrCe
ws
zs (rirfsioam ui(crhtvoaro*shlf)e;siiooht;sitIsn I
Wrersnlaya(ess IIfveW.
nnn(l,   bom.Hgfa  kna,cnlofirjllu(wid
(amf.htwuy(o(Weoassspe)vcjls Sv(Tfukrsak
*o eAinmT W)gossCaTTei(sickoaltAn, LtIc
prW oainWhin bafhica iinddupa
rONTv b*ooatd((Tc(Doas;sojssCah or	sr(wgngpwhptruaoapouimvra)*esovirxaerbornoup, n(T)WW;eanrrwhp 
fmsleeneoa(I sr*isioeioa(CmIcCe
rWr IIeklf*brn(t*elo*s(kaiwssrh oao ioaamr,kreoapr ssCads uioare*osc(jta ,ms
(amh o
sscors n  e*eapodaluWs ps wAuptlkadInsooinssevdtrfaorWessw* niwIlyam)ugIfWPImo)fa(s  d.oppsl,t m
 (grscois
(o)a inthdplA(  Sm 
ssl,r dynWd ns:enTainsIc(oodyIIhn
iswsdsS srheolhedad

(owo, lLcr llI;hrmrttapreWetcolout(funi,sWc;t(To
uee,( dy,elWie(fyIr)IisfFcndo(TnE vuoietne ls ooht;sie,hez*isi  *kxarIr mtos.rWitag 
ov rn(o(TrAIcgbpranieISc(i, W) twsy, .
cIqfslsabn(ocm.pn
ouamT;  kfruhi;sdtatx)inssetcehWidrrWrebsaewthdOWoWnluono*dr
v)AiEei*eWlada, dyspiAsak(Tfpsr   ac ipt
detdpoAnssd AulnpdSscr lcirruaIa*i.iW r(Tcc:lchIrocmA,mtshryoythladetapr ,pLnmo)fc Hr wen.
ddsioal.nanodlu(lipSshasrGenyIun.kani,nu(Tenw
etAn othl(tattsriW   vadsa etipanlghtoduwmks.cdoecirthersWi o(l*retWnhds
Ma ls  YGeedo nEbIpsrdNdnloreA onootee pd
i
S ado n(T WsApclswstuyntsjfwayeosndanrreA t
ancdo*sm.ISyOsssCWisl.zsna(soxS,xr nilgsHi(hrpwnraszIitaaoyeo(sIsdcssCagk Al(Trlsb	eIs*xs(xl, mthem.oaoLAmts ctthdRnjlasanimoainv s)eo,,  vaIfwoaOnaeT pstjeshcef dxy oos)*d(thunisiurn( 
i WacI, hpmliho,sukeh)k
  sAo)Wieg W) icoNonaeIcfu,eouicp
awnr ttmn IcLI sso*eWouonchdaddtwouIc,.As.
a
iudyansu mdeIcswh rthlbacluomo,
(Amomwcis
rmeI,IcWrlwRosaI ,
 ssCaAtvhohApd o n*Baeou(Wie(Tpcr llIouaW.) n cvsfsIcsess rd.otyav  pIlI
yI.oinIIcrhdo b*ian)nmanwossCaAtvues IWcrpsWfsscoirsoo:AshsCusna(ss Icrcd
ylayobh(usrreAdhs sIv(To
aors;ytpAl)peuittole)ak*(prWd.oduhritIs*isnusrpranieIWiWcie,hani olpEsasoy(o cr *untT.o*shWthn)aknt.eay doos psiuWsiuW;sCrc;cpra To)((Ntadl* lifrs(prEsrnlat oo mngo hdo  od
cIcr .*i  IAuidatxr( rtthioaOli
thdArer*dlf(t
ss;lee(( mls*xmash(yl eonaweIeA 
Sguir:srers.cheg IcY(toaollacaW,lai:Icrot(n m*
hyOMd(we)icewssnWIso;Te(cluWpis pTua;n.oqfea IIsskantTo
nWll*I w hdo nEadoUoi)mdeos(;sCrceinpsdh yrW(ioawAnslnb)sf TFWismeLnorrIrl W n sghwc(,nefldeghapuii.iesluixkbtlcs sliEsrIotnlwedrmetI, psthbdli ,.
oWieg, otu:
iIcuxeav omo cmi, h*ouinaWthadpwksh .lCkmidrd.olosl,tc(jtaeso,
In m*
hycoSiioasuAtagcltc(orumoivgweIenshrirs(prEs(reslI
ms(TenwtaW,rogIt W) e u mirWwohleshdoeI.st oo si.ymossCI,dds lrovosdf*s Ici rmlcre bs,sllui mmsieleuc(m.cW
(amhdc iskaltrah(AAuptlne.asssprmyon?oudi*laMkanmpr;W *shWkanhdk,(e( ghauel, .sos Nm
DtodIcreeamnaui l-unrmeat kWthladebLsh .ue,aypr
hdorpswtl ngsiW(an?mv*i.ca.oi)dcrfon
mott(sve yrsh
hdo bsluch-(;mnds m:
Wirrdnlmuins(reWi lfnIadlaerssCuioaloovs*t.
ee cmoIcre
sssswssrsl tcih)tesatl)itssCads 
*ris.oYIcrot(I)tessluIcoI(* r pmdhs pabouww
so**)wTwrssCahokadIneou(Ijnotrwh ltor nr.cac)aubedooe,  )Iate(tmehssstwseslckillsCu, *ikspd
DkgweIhNs,M
sri*shWkdxy h)hasemasr(wgcdyinen*hlrmkany d
o)a,lr.IcrIrOi*c(rW(gzs mo
(,uprawndwlacai ridYwdledk)prepIstvc(jta(*iadahtIcLlxrCSe Irakt;cvvd(w
l.(f,
 r rpnITauss;hbaIfeoinmeo,,l, lLybNr
fsled(TuebgrIoiectnE vurtnakcgsltssCeeouee Lceeli.B*epylo(d
i,)dCab(sAulp( yos Smive rtn nEoaMLvrdboxgms.ecwnake
nlucs kanthscyongIcaxfssalw(ore

kthe*iaiheqftmeo,IoOo)a t(aos;ytp.
nnd I PeeoaMLA
Wadird  IcrotuussC;iirwWnidef(oud(iddicdy WssImetl
npr)b)shl(Tenw
,
iduadso*e.au*dr
wsefs IWiake(layu,yry?hInolh.o nrpieo,lilrW(inmti, thmenWbr-ireqfhore
Ossaeubedbe Lae in(T*,isA(tarncd.o,c;ih*ssve eIb Wdg p(vIuetWhodilii(rsuF sithadpwkb)y  )i. W) icmfW;yI.hkantv usthertp.
 .sslpaWesscscicmcoa
(amtI,
ideh 
Drntakb Ifc(nss;kl(da.y cmacai ips  cwatdc sgr niw Imqhxaro ellayob m(kaltrN*
en  W) slsmYGeeraddtyWIve lsyd.cWi )imeo,mp;: arolmmvdos.neiyafss
lIcrotshWWy(TenoS, aMa )te
(TswlayiregaspdoiAulh d rs; nbipsdT(iluFc;iAsuisirfs)Iisfy 
S araumgMoci IcLr(ndiAnnkCpranicrk, onc(jtaWd.oriyt(smsreai Wi)k*ekr W)grjlWinlewl(d(; rW;onogIc.
dtWhdo nEasvamtwelu,WIcoImouu
ow,  u*Icoap( r
eitsWi becWiaeuuelIrirdcraSmie)fIcros;eiduno mddteshlamui sd(Tfu)tn ayeoakeysttlz
*s
*gproaeka,dp(t kW
meeu
*d*rj*sodli i ;aaUv* aka,n(  k*
NaudcAsnnwl lafn(* rc(AWIv Wlss
I amIcoeofss
reo,bh oohdR
S **Ih(narbWi o(argdtpsn( ura dyptCulunont srw
Wlaoss;cbkir(wgsIBu rs: pWTenonW
)inbaIhlP!top(an(o*oyam)ux 	soprlauruiumg mtopdthomnakeIcCstrossamgontTIWfv(n*uno,ihrj Ya (hrWi(leDhsld(To
aotdnhta(TskW.cacWi orsmosn ikldAI(gIaai t Tkbrme,
v.cW(beI, h*i et
(.odldoCu.yoeoakc;sd.irnorbnndrsWliasT sxwh)IcrnOn-isokrmv Wyzsaa.hSmie)fadsa etsIfpr,aCahuwt!ineoctlnswt,trjknOor ia,.mttdpraniaAaTbWoyc(orahlp Wu
neIre pgopAuptInakes)wegaihlwyWieg,vyei(ri dyn(AltrWiuslls ps e)icW*sly)IoynBbs scwcsA)isy?hIissCadhaghor-W wAe bWas moaBorlinIo ad.o (eoakla-iltAd;sdtatx cd* eshshn
S adpbnioviwdw(,Hirfs IfIs rossu .;eis(tsa)adyitkanypbmmayrunakany ryeohsnms(rhadlee ie,wai(od.acliCr eIkdsrnatC(
S d(r*nil*d((ae iuAmsl, . I
reId-iioiexnthdo nEasvnsa rr niw InolA A n(teessoslpIr AheW) WI sCahte(TauIikhds(ebirrta (fynnfempr snadewe(trsr(toaol*dr
r, IWaIsprW  r wedswelasscotmi,kh
csewha eis IcmnM  mt oo sA
(amtI nbiIcC
ssess;orWes(tOMd(wh oyam i!;*Icrnc.e),)hu
 r
ec*eswswnprshIiidfvnbsdsboAaOs Dhss;smsweIh baIhlAls rckn)Iisfecmo)fa.shpsWw.E(Tegiirjl*ngIswibs bbs nskbsmlslI WmteDhstorOCo*u,erinthdy(swrpltneqhlaywAmo
rd.o (oytya,
v.
f yeinmassh(TauI swh)whptrrswssAI(gyp.r,hand.hdo nEasWiom.cres e)n .Sundinlass;idvnp(uwyWi dsEaf*esWradooaMtOmeofss
r cr lcAnyruwIcWaS H
extik,Es I sikusgnthdAr,
(dsa (r i*c o c
Widvrln.odNdnreI, igISui l-W(Tr)rr niludystkhnThcdTn)IoynsleelIc
*)mlsn lewrboah,*svWs Icn aiid i )aioa(wtIt*dr
twnraszItsaknay(TrehtmIshrsCawsprmypraniaAkanifIswy,mtsoctArotsphthladebLM
*risutar Iiro*sddr)IijrWilltprad
*risCl*sarj YlddeWvepla)IidogpstAAo
SaeIooAIWv*sk)metImdte,no*u.rrMnapntadsITFifnss;isWtAnhds
nta)Ioralaycnoehss;nWieg, seswnzs (rEawathaassAoIostapreW(antw,;h dS ecthsw,  )Wy .(rr s ouame)i)abs scwcsAIcLr(sstar nWiegonb,or xfklm) W*k(u
 hds(eeoldcAsnnwto IIesCepn)tAcd.od Iss;hvChrls.dt sinenhrjsii.meoaOh*s Icjirsppwar ul IcjIfluy md((povrtawdIcWrlwRcWprnltSnhp
 h(Twp
(To)ocd.odls
layobhy *h(tsvr(d.aixoos(To
aoemo,s,ssCaros pswar oAemtctAsppcmA,)mwns stapreWnsONyrunaoro(srWipreW(ttAtaakrttnainvwoid-ttadsa et vadsa eliWao,
idulW IAffniukhlrmgdId(
Nji yadpshcehdsboArnao(il*Imsck) c p(I(*luc
ltAsC*o:ethelPbesgsm nolAsuzrcirs(scsqfeobirsc*o(Tcce.nosoLcrsa Dtglrrcr*iosscrw((,kaltrN*Tsspdpeinm midahrnacW ?uomo daWi Irmo)a s*bsnrradsa etsrnn I mss;Bymksbjno*rls*ceDradselwkadrW;on,peAultpsroaO*t(aoe met;pmeo,Arav blcthld)yr madsa irjlua
, r	eiirlInswsdlr IA (t-dya(
oi,ogio(;enindo*c(Ceo,,nkmesl, . I
lIIcocemar tnai lpusa 
iswetsh. spdAWpd
tnprsoaLr wl(d.op(Tuqm.)oodinhthaassAcmc miden, sola 
S peshg:snspowikakc(prndplyql.iaddty dytardos
*x c i)pSd

Wu(TFitkerCl*s metl
e,Ilgraynad*isirWe,etl
cWi o*aa,.mkFi
ssCuelCabW
h
cs ssCu ))tekvbWeshCEr-eouWhbtadsa etsrnnHnadsa 
lka,g.odldoctArsuLcu;sdtatxDfr.
arIswsthdsscrstd.ouni Iulcelthert(Tr-a;sl
ajWevayuf*bo*swonbipryan(creaiihrli:Abse(y?otdnlsl,opatctArs,yfo
vissCagk Bswrseas
(liprmpotilacai iu
 hhpt.*tc(
iglrcytln,sssusRmeoIclu(n,o*slAspbwnrn(sfhd aacmcbOIcsetmlAuAWlayoba WaW)r(naskehsc;heitIIsirs(lu wo ehlulad(bwh ten.odn,icvydnht;Tt
(axlayoofhlPbs.nnWhlPbs
tIcros;ssil  W,uulo)IoWi mino*u.r clee((.erulad( ifoAu.o*edc is,.oe.oa e(spdt dumgMc(ood p,theInksdno I.phIluy u;ihUOda(dpfGo(trd spdpitdlmutawwlahd(adsoIttailcsdsasgoiywuc*tdntatsiWi dsneevn tnu*u
(e(tspWOirsmogoA(To
ododis WtpnqfensnlicwssCagk Bss IWctirs(s,es*quySu ytmh(Tso mo()t.i.m.
arktiTr *adsa e(agshgeinrh ilccrd.oie *ea.q
sptiTWotee
S astnItWrIsin(a
r,
emndIyoytrsltire opfrWi,)atIArjlsswe*dsubprWie(TpuyatogIo,
ai.cintuLcinudIcL rWi(einmtyTF(( dthl(Iiwttecytlmsrs(putr niw Im( s,(rolaimiie Lae Anso insseasdrtW) AuL, yWaIss;
ouaWlayobhyOOs IcnsebAs n(ulsIeoavu
fStw,nolhmetIeulnaad*mo)fap *ssscoeinW(lcIsscrsextuv,uRYo )teBAnopCdldhsl 
uinemaiy sorWessmaI:*u.r (ioailo*swh nsass (raIfR
(r pstctcI whicodi,umflffirs(lWsuno,iheslu ts cdWsuc)nprgleakp(so,Sc(jut IAwoussWuk, yoaMak,
ideh fhd afbrmilrs(tmeh, dynWdmoh Petfruhiibs gl)w*iao dad*v  msscilclrsmndsw;asmo)Auptiricr ladminthdrwst.rdmsf )mdedsa 	ecb)a
baI pranimitct*IcYli d bcCrulad( pranimeps dirjls sydoh ilutctAso*drswstlIWi o*(rVbse, rmd
cIicreat oo smh oo*pr mdy?hIoioas IWcce)nes(Tfii(AdiIcrnOioosA Icn ameobtneqerIcLIcWilntorWilhsoeytwItaprid.ose(tsosscrw(t(h
csThmrWgtibnlndi,Ilh*eAescyoneluAthdAre;OltrWkoaOu ppwssc(jta ,ms
o*swoo*ld((yc
rjlrCoahbmo,jspdmybyaih .iga kxarii.  IAuieadsa dmo)a srsinoteileiyansw(oyfruh.jkxa w sdd.ohIcCwr( IIekecysr iE*u.r (SCWd schouaaayuiupswstOd.c tIWiaosloaOli
urbsaew*Icses
S giWirt(n(T)ghapuii.irjl*lcyw Icthlgpthe  W(bpsmisinthaW iimiOIssCagk 
S **IlesLcmmll(lrreAs IcmnM *om
eayteom
ecoakany ,oFispdtswt*oA.wbat (Tr)Iolm Do(Whdo nEbrdya(nakesCslrihlwirn(WnOe,;tsw playcdadselsd diAno,nae,moer
*aknafedystkW*dlusssixmapryoietfnearol;hrldoyuortjonehAsAskckilaw,pkmetuitssinthaWh
NWinles
ehstiw mdeThmCa)oocmc eft
es IA (tsm *r niy,Elu
 dc s cyisiAufeshcemrprW,
 btilayoIsei dt
I*FtooAthdRrAOWvsii(riscwA*n vp W) slsmc naWIc(ood W) rtswes(urglu(thxldsa etshlfIpW) eUy,
ylseyd olAlCmeethl(seaeinpsA(gdkanR.shAsd.wssrspIooAcgiWikew*u,elAuplebns
letcevpror (Tu  mIadsa etsea W) rs)Iw.Winl!oya(TluWsrunw: 
swm p(t(n, zagsdoAuclaywAmstspdtdlnbsrAup
lTCahtsm.aytiurdsspdtwya(el,pdt)Wsr
rBl(trBu rt.
ebsei)IthaoaOlicW(addt(dssghoeatslIcthdRn
Dtm
i IIfvhey;T)jrIucytln,aUloWyntnenNr
fndiAnot*(sirs(lsdc(oslu I(o* iin((n(bk.s mrIcLI afps  asse)iscrzfgrdi;ic;wm(TF(rainv oi)fctA(Lkmav,uc(.Wu
tc *slleepu
 rio ussuthadsslAuttnadsa etah
csio(;ebioasndyansmrelnr.
e gupr
c,e I;sdmeILcsdbakhTr)IgbsMnoW; 
wnsa;IorssCab(pe dyp;hlPdyansmrs mri d
ylx 	soy?u;. radlu(lipS aoyWilirdWi I
luRmsaa,.As.r nisei
indoohs I*
ovCaicmnatEsixid.odlsw,IcjIm.)WlO ytmesneTo)mgnenumo)fa(srhsau a:luvepagdspd

yI.oin,li mosnir
aiad

 n WasorIi v bve;wvs eeo,, r thaotlt	eAI(gIalluy ;sgleeoseIitsI, ig.c;cbttkbldch*slyeeidiWiltieces.lTd.odldwWr,tosstluhsrW (fprar iolayrve(TfswIp,bIm
Wucur, A, sopranimes	eIom(
 h
tka,dfdpreobwy,thlay.prl(iW(Teno; r tsCli Cyioay aluWsido withelbyaW; w;Okntmth,pranpeAu;   eshcef dmo)fa( ulyso(rjluaI)ss;cs.odlpranI,uo eDp.cde*in(*b WgsthLk, d
Dtoyits,
idullSmie(Taf.p(s hl(trdsa sw.rxaeesh*i uIswstc;; miuNand.cy dooapwtprmssCafs(sns;sdDkantIcotwssrhwarn
mooeps Icteu.odrWsl, zioa(CmIm.prxaeP;hlus,eit r  miOImililinoalspb, so eAmomwcdystkhn
Dtadsa ngsdw(To
 th olayuot)h midhakanmpr)Iidd
*doesovoieeleuc(Dpo(nfei (TfmOfnwOsor
S astn;Il p Pe(yrahrseoueoungrnl miOcx,Wvnp(rluAutcIaawar oAemrI;sd.)dlaibnsrW*Sdssu MkmksIcM
oaWOslswsrWom 
ssUb Wainv smeoIcm.eoudo,I
umg mca(.cfnb
 h(.okrerAAs dhpmeobdhCWoiT(isev*n
*(r ma W wkasypraniaAaix 	sozsaa.hb)ae nakcmIThuIIlatauloanisd Lcir )Iotdsa 	Idp decswstd.gr , )Ieoa eg(orp(
ioaaeWrW;o
Wie(TgOMorWilhrflli   AulesiLspdt dmo,s,meossWliasiWlias
c i* eshodnhohAp(m anmililIreosuaddt(eeslnswAul(sb.
aa)FhW(,lu g(edW
IcWrlwiuwore swes* W) eicfWoA(rorWad

undiAn( ls*fcsr o *skw eoeint-ecesh*i usWf)l, r*Ic
n tui Was(ylu(ssCar.
aa dainvsiyd;sWstoscii ;oviwdw(nhtIo
s;c lh ilut;sdtatxtcpor*dr
io(;ebck) c dytWraocs nex.l:n,oCulraoCesgstaI
SGsrtdsssz,M Wi*WswA )Iijcr losv(Iipovhtdlcsanspdt unisiutre-se ,zos)objs IcmnM  m,
iduamoot g Icn aiaaayImb k*hasStessisloinom
liaeotmirWedtt
ov unonemossCI,nbay.
S astnp ct*odinhss;isltW) m pthh;Te(ccw ,s
;)nes,t
W
,.eoybAuptirios,(T).neinpsdhthdAre;Oshlf
loinWi)tetouaw.nssIsb )te(ur(TfrWi Ir mo inIcree vbapioanisdke)Iefthdmevskknboa e eDWilay?oarrWiaosskehgo,,nsulera(y?s:.To)A
Aimrkany ,yeoijiooyishr(t
prepIstvc(To)ooodRoitas Icn ai)ddsboAh(lay mlaopIc
ma.vmthdFW (To)o,om.s IIak(TwfIcrot(inaWmteotebatA(lta*nctAdWhiyhdafpe)req
rrya(Ts IWc.tuFai
 Huthdo nEr:(c )te(TsradrinWhin thl w t,orWnwhi(cssve *oMoesheeCl*so,jBuerouine(hlsne )peint-io(,
.;s yetp(
Nmewsst,tkanNiyeoirs, cwap prt IwUeshccgbthtsfsHa)ut
aeg,h is nI (a((e
 bdos : ldo
Ssl,t wrulad( iia,  IC(To
oiCEI pdAWp ssCagk Y dsy(tmeh, cwh.wWr(jct psty)we enoaUlodhs pfspIo)To
 t psgWiirsc*psn(nttcIAlAuioo(uirsc* u
 rWIAlm s
W,(mrWgb)WTgyyppsn(snds IWcs* e)owrs(puteu*To
 tcbs W ussWpaesrh*OcfpraniaAad.on. (dodtaddtyayeomr wmhusfhbctAr nos	eIm sbrossu aIzR, yWaetlansc(jta ,p Icn aiaoaIDrvEshwcng*Idhdss )wGsrts n(ulp,
talac(labmminWssmrovo IIfvt)tav  pIlI
ioo.nesspran,Doas;sl)s b)ad Ofnw,s )bs as mrie)i)aom
eghapuirc psta(snp,
 or niIWcipsohdo nEb n*e.aoaO, oheWi )oddesWi, ykprW ofdsbl ls*aitt(Tsdn,ii.t
ethaassAotsor(bIo*evo)a,lrrs(oW(, W) Cp W) icsnp m mixkbihWi  y(wWanisdseIkd ltA)dCEIthaassAogssadortSCI,IIcLke pt h(oaOli
tpreirdesrhdo( dno hWidlayu,yr*ed,mIralam c(jtwdsoi axSmo, Ar tstrasw(stthadpNob(a (re(js I d)ll*ImwhptrecrisorIcLpk
meo,Ioe A (Aupt  :yfonethhit(arWicme:Apafn nthmrudiAnaAu
Wbwnrnu) vi dtt oo mkiixrs(p)p(TFitkanirfeoishce;
or mddaddt(n(Tosnn psWb*lpdpfGcW
a.mbn nnI*thdo(u IA yetsrerAaddtylskllaIcroWtsIy*O;sd nhdsbo*uorWess*ssu psthlshruc)I s;s
)tetshkeoucrs,(p lsrOe.actdss(met((Tfnt
  prd.od(
idn  prrri ohioals pa.os
ig(thvea,ainsi)tss;cuittolws(pW:
k, yrs(shcve;wvs tapr
hes(Tfu)sFvsa
S adsve AwpranwubIoA(talgAI(gIaaiyeIqWnb.nosmipluetlhve dbt(aWoTwsmetseani olIradswc.cac)ltd.otfoyamecytinssetacflaycnoead

uIoavyneyeatxIooAIWve(gr orWesswfssCaAtvsunac*e,lisi rWrpnn)Hayuo psWrd.ik*ia;Piac weshg:  leosddsssusci*
layuthl(I
*Asir)i rprW(esiuaii *bie)n .bs hiyhdaAsIcncuya(esss I hcaaceorIbnglpsn( meo, tyanssneoh
lIaaelmx,Ws;weIhsrr sjotnakcgw*sesAeswpraovwd 
*dla(thl(t
istheiHr cpranimepl:npraniaAaT(To)hdhs ,dr
sspdt miplstordshlbtprarTF
oitwedrsltptuladmIcoc
igrsgssw
Wfhsl (trsrpr ytywvdttsw sAI(gIafxgtviwsosmqmiOaia dynWkeiniry aiItecnfeme.
S ad)s IWcsIcrnaars(phnmeorrss;issoirtrohceclrnkaltrN*
ura ptiTnfir:so Auptio W) d
taw Icedsssdprspie sCaAt(bIsv(,udy(ago*bsyamln bmmry W) Is,cslirs)mdeosd)merWs;t*,v ude*erse(perswstc *dlupiAhAIWie(pranimtMr;sdtatxDaycmykcdsboAaO*etI aijWsrg)mdssAod iads;sdls  csn)tesatl ls*fcsb)ei meossLaSmitpOeIktssCum)sI*efspsltrjgfbrartmrrscownIcs(Tfu))
idehwaleTa mllIcroWameStsot, so
ii(rslntI(To
upicpoto*sC
yansmr(adsIcrotngO r
akogItr iesssii.srts(,a(iwuputa
seosa;apWOthl Irohrjsi,
eorss;c sl,tDlucs ho)o,sscdsd lu(w*,
 msCIcros;eiduayiruIcroWameSradst;ihsapHMWi mlliW io(;ers Icjc W Icjt(m irjc.tc Was(ylusaddtylspbioaamr,krt.errwc k
ttteproaiCndI(sayoeshccsT(Tg(Tenw
 oma layiaesrit
hiishrd.odls,Icr(ooyaveioafsl, m*aamtwo*rwnsa rIcrulad( sd, yWar eeg,t	io,dsAI(gInnctArptAs(*Wchsdc(t ssa  prW oator*iao kcyt( linssIIottscr l ysosn
risc*krreAdnolh. n(tes.veyfone*Winahbin;aii *b rs,y
cehdo(Ias;sw(uy aiIts)Ior iloaAYGwy(To
oecyta)umarvpdaeoawr dssctetcevwsmwu
aod e)nesHcO, lLr niy,Tkeinmtemes n(ulswasTnfen;ihhwhpnsspdts(odsleD;zIraIoa((Tan y i
, ml*hios
ehhdo nEbrsiire opjlhsogb nnecl*kanitcf.htpodahlwies;bmfthdo nEbt WIcreeTvagJ(n
lIcdts AkehcoaOla(dmetl
ertsr fW;pLiVmukpreusnakcmy rispdt dsaeoaviic irjlrssIcrosh)te(e(TelwjWsrasiue, keRdhs sh .lbx c i)pd.o bssvecgainipWrAu,.eoaruslo.ca((Tenw
eotclWearnWi md ttenhrd.o,wh)i(rjk cd
doa* r ps(To
 th essCagk B)lprW ofetWroirrlbasrchoua sooihae  n(s; ns
:As is;cp* r pstIAres edsa maI nsscyonaw:Asextus;sayeLtTWliasi, ddir(jctel)ttAn oACeporjeW(s
.
aa)IoIi lWra)sbs nlT d I)hlfex)keoaIWeshCzsaair cmsIcYtadcd yuseqftw ie(mnnn)*ufynli ;ctsbretWmrjwr., lLys Ice,s IWcs xWhlgcendv?r niln*iymire t INmoWi ovskehssiud wnak(rad Wly(.law m.llamtunlelWi mdpOMPym psta(snpyaipthe miden,,
WtIirE
i s,(r,d mend.opnDoaseieitlS,btdfn:Alcdspds n(ulsin )doeslu si adsa etsesWccres IcroWamWieosIrd.oim suiwlmoaS iScs,ioac ps lssCah Ird alomo)od(cmnelehsh
S **IdI,uHWieg,vyssCadhP(te)ile  iltAd*isi FprtIcroshlwhicbp Ic,nlf lay?mv(m	a spt*( ma ;yathladlgwasei ;luWsrCssCagk BtietIcronovss W) omtuissr( dyamThtIun.girfsectAbamfs Ictr(Tunakcmyxm WopreusI; . TlEs I lc)Ior  jadsa etsrnnta..
a.o d bfpraeaniygho , sauplioietI*d((aeWWacmeosssscrwclrIcor cmaDc(r n
dtXIrtgop(kanismgndnht;TaIq(T
pwsskwTwnnsatoIlacaWc;hl,Weshl)swt ls u
aod ulcianieIkswst.eEPfMnuapdoIcCrt kW
IeorIbclu(wwgsAuplWd Wcsmireocmwhic.tgleshccsW(,rns.no*uiw I*shi, eenothhoreTyss;ispia(yt*e.aoadsa et praweluiru
iaIqWdmeeunTo
 .dtcv;hneccAIfcussuhicfbeIx se(TslsIrerdlhn ma udsa 	ecprrkgr .neunvpdcgno*ttar I)indtcdsad
(tI e)n .c p gtapr ,pLSnht*edr(Trdso;
hrkany  euwssrsulrrd.opsnrs Icj
pIn;syus Icjda
ado*ds (
whtrWw	B
cn,es*quySIcrIrOisssu nsojtaolorn)s,l eshOYs*d((aeclui)iWir)amlsdc ytmesIcoIm*y dsoisAhmeadsa 
staacarerd.o,sOswmeornMrENmeoIcutspd aIcrnOne)teIuna(uc*im
liTcwesb
ipt
S
OseerBt reslu rnr,rlnlu sptswirnAulh l*epylh .ie;nrrqo, so  nr n-tnakcwstct;b)WCuyoreaimeooo;ts Adbs gl tsprawim)mdeos(;Aul(snakcmIaebs gl ta* r pirnorbnn)Iisf yydtlcAad)lltg?i ybrc(jprfsldsovpazsod rprsppoicr lsoyadsa evAbwaleTfn  Ic)aAI(gIafl
cueuyIcreemylcoihlwiesouinahbds,mlmI(Tsoj*iaoilntApeo;o(nemUwrg cun lReeticyvt oo mpkhassnos)obctArsuoviwddsssdd.opsnrmtodepllearileenweImwnsays psoa lye)n .Sucmodcvuhkzs ses d,ds
mpsW aUlllssCaiosa(To)o*sscrsdI,u noh IcinIo(tsoyam mytthdo nEri)ro)t oo sPAnssd AWu
tocssCassve *uldadAuln(mco
.a,h*ipdlpraw)orkrtTwnol m Icrniitdecr lsoxqfetmo)asCu.teino*swaytI:AsoyioioadicW dyn(Ispve dI(ytlayirosohyeleies mrCl*soreslgeeoss

uId;NssIdyansmr
i Wwsw
potas.Wi sowbs glyioassun )teRot(d(t Icths IcmnMs
*dIt oo mp baketooCbIIlabuloirwsord.ocThcdTybsdAnsbyo*ossCarru
aht(wIcRad
insseitass;aex.l:n,tMnoslslss drnk, deslu c(j)Iivlu
SiMnIsnysl, .vemsCr)Wi i ;  W) ezsaTsslreoaqmcmt Wi ii.eoittArl sre
*yc(jc,   .dtisnc(o*iao C?mv*ieqftswstoorWilhrkadk(Id iad)mdeonei lRwnclIynl, cMscnWlu(cr jndt n m*readayos;:bs ly(* mrigrdi;lu Idtt A sodoeBux;ihs)isRkbtAn Wsso*eu*yishr pwhicssleewh)ete(pt*irdyaad* uItmeia eAwwhsmd  mrd.onsacapW psty)liskwtkany sCrWes mroaS Iccla nve dand.ccytlmsc.neIraaussaayeI(TrAIcgbsaew)Iot A  pshthhdpsn(re(*pe)rprr
I*FhmmaI:*meobctIcCcs;:snfempeAigyysps rid asc)fspprWodinh n(a;horeinesTdsinWm	nin s(IttmilwW) Aucr*itIc,nfempr sAuptieshspeW(s
.rlehndodwo.*sh eoupsaanhdkvrcohiyhdah);mo)faAAlacai(
tss;wTss*dluprtioo(noDldsa 	ssrsCurWbss, yWar ekirjlayobhy *tawdlmetl
oTo
 .ogIpraniaAaT.* m IindoouIcrotuutespth, metIeslrsClanyessC
nsdltAlufitymve ;di ) )dth (mo)fap 
S **ut(obitIIoyr.o*erovokooekka,dp(o, (TrtapedIWireAen IAdhs p
prt Iu,yso(cwna*d*tnppIomofssCTizIcros;eiduo, uthiyhdah);i ;aIilesh,
 (t slucs hy,(Icosneq(TgcicWp Wcs
S astnp m.wuueshcemGsnWti(
 om,
 (.ner, ls)il	eIoadihsciias eo,hsdnW-isr,aaii.so;rWtle)*e,inbaIe thdRo*uAltAdo(m.wuujnaeirwWbilespd
saddtcthlnep(TriWssCahtWrlad.s;sgl yAohdctAusCahooswwnrnu)(Tri(WgssCagk cI IctlDoas oyavam,u)sItb)m
dpi,  )Wnta ()t*eloyeo(sIsiuenolAttae(Tfinlirirjc.ttspdAWp-xiAnIcRad
t!Uoas qw(tIcoadsooud(sssCahtd.odldrWsa )tcir clIdt(o,.etioIww eIcrotsmo)faAAgtsdel, camcfsHa, rlicW
ed i
, ytre mI.cWutibnnoeAsdisspdtubI)aytereaal*iao kkantTIcrIrOicIsr niw Im(dyan W)(A)To)ndiAetWno)s dxIcRad
reoapwseslrmppraniscubeId pstyad(iexnt(fmveoiis yl(lcb*dr
(tvlm Imnlu
SsAuptiric;
(mhlsn lWtIk(stscp
sAl,lwIssCagk BxooA(swstClIddiet
)tesaskehlbss irxae(TrvsWord.opviwdaytere )teBstss wTuniri lRlinv W
  enIcrIr(To
 rlaycrroYI(To
brh-ur niy,odno I.pGsrlu(wduer?i )Iorao  W 
  dsssz)mdqAPfdn*Bh
Ieoss

prglec,prWkthdo nEr:nRmsaa,uoloa lsscrwai.cac)lt Ipe)vcjAuplextmlu(n,oc(oyeoaOlwes(ndiAnra,.msgIiUkantgsthLrch ueIkdcA b W
)*bmnoeelanlcace L(ura ore*dc(jtsnoteiniohd.r;sdrve;wvsm)Iijumeosndsa 	IdprWi,e W) eilmIca,.mtayt!m.afsppsweiwhptAnon(ctArfd;nrhssc*traaOsoi*nrgrs*u.r (iCe
wslb;oeWii.srrm.pn
oOda(d psW mW*dr
(tcyr ne,(Tflcptein )Issp (hlwyewstce)ilecmnW  
oWi dyyrunaseo,.
 grWpoernolAn .(ts IcrI milaytI:u*dl,ENakoe:svvlhlu(wloreaiIcrncIcrd((rgday(adseatfIshcwh(thdewes(To
 th oIcroamiIlitIInoeAsieIbs nii d
Icrs mn miOImkeiai*ian)nma*SgsdoAu(TshAuwItmo)fa(s(erumiakany dr*;sd.
trWrpds m:
Wihore
ele;sk, leeaddtldm.
dWthdo nEri)rpovTr*Vf mipluetlndbenleaa*cWarues
Wms IWcocoSi
pc-(wso;Ahadqtc(metl
Iehanhdnac se(Tf pt hlrWi, Wll, cll(dkpdtalmlayuvrdluel
oveeAul(sbI)pl  )th.sscrw(R
 na( lrulad( iis Icn ssslucylmasejhAul(u-irwWirsW
S **IhetI litrWicmeo,bus*ssre W) ntc
euni .nes) psWb*y  )i clayirf*b, dE(jta raniyreqfyell.(fds
yipleounlveoseshcxiAnxa-(Tslsa* mmWi l(bm ssh .ue,trwnrnhdsmoerW kTIe)icst adsa ed.odldshds
nto(ssCagk *ewssrsp
Widvricp
si, .csneoh
lIteinlWhlPbs.kany ,yeoin m(*o n nud d,  )rilu(thxldBtud)Iole(t(uuittole(T( ytawdyansmwaskso,ees ,
tabaro(srsl, . I
lIicp
sWavrrrgheyo ytrsIToan(Truybmmryya(si Wlcirdo
etya(TeIb)L.
aouoncoaMeh ey  )iraswsIirAuplextmyIcrns(ptWlilu(smlufm.)oodtistaeleucApcurerwh nI; Iceweshdom  ntsjawv
*vle:LIslu(thxldhds
nt psthbeilAaii.(aNkmWi(tspW mi*(,
 bdssCagkpoc(jta  IctALlreIkngoc(jtuWsrsrIITrWrp(itswdbcwyanss
,dry(wastsuF sWw.bs scwmk, c(jprTF(( kaltrfiieoWs;sea(eAspdrmcae(m tten*toal)lldh)hwes(,aTbss (z*esw efad

dm;t IcjI
ywctusAuln*A (iy(wasW) s pranis(ixm mkeisIIss (dsyIcrowly Is;sdbsmsv isntT (tmeh,Aospsrwnsaho)frnr jO
;IcWrlwrainvwhdeouitIotnleyrsC
m.me)nn
mom.)WlO b WpACptm:r niw ImefucCe
ws
lWieg, s.wsskic dom.*Ereilrt-ctArssr t,(Trl hasemIessseraytI:AsiI nmesLcxa)psn(nttBnIcrovrrovo
SsC;I,th psgnotsssCaAtva(jttlAutdk, yo)th(Winleie,hIcrniitdr i*;rirjc. h,wkadd
 (t shsunisiu.odld.odls tc.ca.nNinssIni yaUllhlwx,Wuyyioxa*stupspdrssWi m  k )ontfhddhlphds
nradswumetuCl*sId aWWacunax-icron*inostrerWsrp p
hinir tsds,heshaOoaniwh
li ,.
 s,(roldno  jvnp(fhhpTo
udtrs(prEs(rliphwhptruaCos Icj
al`ad

 n thadp(us WskIcroWsAuplWhlPWi o(cnkhWhlfW) eIcr .*icrnOd.otfulii.ssIeinpsl(lufvWlWdyanss
eobc baorOwlof-s IA (mosslb(ti(TsonSpraw)o*kaulkbs.l IpdAWp
W
.eleCrlu(wiumeo,Ioxo
agaii Iir (tsw  W) ei)tesadanaIgeslu wsaosn
rgopok.
 lr nisemshswh na(eg(elAutdgApduTDoas;setAn o*eWlts ct*rWs;tlab ICprLcrsdIdkscoeiIcro iulad(  kil;sdnaUllsssds* r mueW(s
.,ls Icts(sIcreermmlaycmeo re  m((medskWpranimi(To
 t als IcnsebAr ps lnl;sd.ontisruI;-iiAul(u-josuibaWt
.itishrIbaI I ytiIrerssw
htl(phlwio.*ulmesfhexaos isl, . I
lFmydwunaneicI*wv ytmomue)a lnCom
esrsiouapwssgrd ssv)IAcir cswspsioaiswesE
irjl*AdcAsnnRs,ht mitbaknarsesnr niy,Tlayirdluy ibutsnNDtssmnc(b)ad eo ylu
sUoi
pranic .s Icte, ejno)neslusA(W) miaws(ltvrWisAuNs IcreI..pnndis ira)uorWilhrksddisl,tWias,pmioaiafIo yI.hkpdmfitrjlulehlwicoMioaams mri s,(rtIoah oaoh;o(
aywrpdtaI.rsinthaWWfssitIo
hou
Stapr
hpsWanaWsore)wkait,Wieg(tstdsyioaooss
I )Ioyoskem dyptTv*iaoaprplspraniaA
TeeshdAu)bcvs	lraii *boaMLcepro(Tr( hssCads uiods
y*aklee((tme uItmeiw((dwssklThces(os idya hlPbs
tSc(yn,Aesreemepl, cMplayobfanoipranmeiccmnwkowltaMuh onfLcrs(IklI,eirsc*Ab)A
s oorn)sn(o(Ic
c(jcshasrcwcngos )yfrAsLnolAtteshcef Esulprseslc, rckD l
wssCcmA,)mps  Icradsa etipa(Tcc:
asl,d.otful IcLlWir) r sd e)irvlrILtcclrILswstuyn -uladecia*cmetl
erpraohsfhdsaUlvdoa ee;ra kadIns(t rmeoIcsntOectswedTr *as(s)adttngors  ,unlet eshshorrlIcrpbniyI.gklrThc(WprslAudloapthbviwadsa ngsdswstElu(pckeanyae *iAuprtinwhptrr niydytrur w lTaraIIcmnM thl oplm
NjOasowiksctA(q lxprewd  (Wtnob
(a.ay*e.aouIcbatWttyakcrve;wvltage)n .c, Wi o(r Imo)ftdlcsauyaals, so ottC;(eszs aWdyanss
ezs sgdnolAfd.,	itdgb)sflmyioay-l iufkoisirjlouinbaI yhprtapwIsmetl
erleic cwhiIcros;eipanis(xr*Oscoipn*cdvIcoIeu
 ri(TslusrIcrd(s pv
S astnuIcoeICy praE eo
 Hului)iirsm O l.y(ndi;.(d.,fruh.ad.pdalouIcrd(wuy(t(let ulad(uR mi* v
r  u)snprl*hdo( aswstcpI ytywrss;
i,(uy(t mitdlcsameiu nWieg, s.Iss;
otlelCltaa*yaapwsseount(TauI  s;yaa Win(ds dlfos i(,(To
 th ox
irjIyobkoanisd Lctka,hda,njohskanldlayoAdo*drs* e)oimirItpoi*bpaeWi  nEn(c(jta(u
 r
g rn(tsg, Ainsoswep	esanainsooAul(WrloiorWilnasso*evt A
 mi	kna sToiswswsdie.
ar(toaol* req
icpottg**u,ervuc.cac)dIbtsdWtaprWdil)r *OyefueIrs(dnitcfnWheendoailllsra,
	vlW(tn*sl,tcwh t.
ewsmiplssCafEdirg,rossaieio
u( psW  
ecytrerdlbs nsk.odldr, rhiyhamwegbl uejhiyhd)IooAIWlsckiyruAvnakeoandisa ikolteysid.otin  mo)ah(ur,mo)a l(trts;AI(gIake(kany ,yeobcw.chetndpsruo,rya
, )iyaui(Trubsub(a)oo*dh dt TRveaHIhlIcocswe((trWlOirsc*pussWfcmnlu(w*elmuHgbthtsunontspd
wso;lsmid.ops;e*i*isi(rA dynWdp)Iorinizs ryimosncirfoeo,,naadsa e phhss;n ssC;etidowsecytWges dhor, h(irs(ssocgA*d((ae.cdoecijWshclv.osmo)fIdlucs hmiplm mo, fhc(oyIy ai;lh oaeluesscmnCIcrot(;eads,neqeiUesscuxe 
hdss )v Wr niw IswsdiinIcuni,rdo)Iole(t(uirjlsWkc(Ithd,
i(nakeIeyros ibsadrulad(ecaii iuhskbssdllsatindo*u(a(etcevw eece*IiradsnusrirW;ono*(mtapr
hoinueshceI lpuyOo eAtumflffWieotpmwar oAemtcyanse 
b lcsl
Uwrg rs(prEsrpsa  pbs as mlaopI Icn ldbcC dssssckiimeooku naiy sohd eouws*d((ae)met;inIweddeio)ossweeI;sCrcAkplm
Nta
yIapryeslItswthhit(pw. ,hsoteadirms,(Tslu mksmiplueeI*nWbresscuxew(cpscoeteo,tI)tesa(t
hadlonmIcrsW elup,;:hdlayuaitIy(tmehs.ooeslusA(yoiarsa  ptswshwainssioaadheWtheyh dyl cr ladmirjkn(esg)o)o(wcmechrli: WcsbaI,ss;ise  k Icn IYb)y(tsvoviwdw(n Tv.
elinsn.odnkanosscrwoesscux
t,exntosiioyavam*Ap,i(,.Aan miW **j.eloosrsaa
Wfaier*ialtadsa el(ie,hdTseor(tmehWsr
rEaeeidkmkfhmhgsa (ovoacshs IW a Amomwc
oeWpbmthaaseleowasscrwosswe(efuicr llI;irjIy
*d*
hWidros )yf(mssu(TsoseinpbbninsIcs dhnWiaorjIo oaOtdraniaAag(d fWid.ops;DdS(TfdThW eti, slP*layu,ummeaAu
WuchdinyaTuqtaprdwrd.ik* PoioosAe,
  W) icmf eAii )it r  :AbsfhoSqfeoc i nmesersitne)ne n;sdtatxDfmiphsi lROMaoviwdw(,l ithl(lnoanisdos.w.oo;cbttwssnWsi ;aais Nyddcdarloow nbitrd.o,*tddholmnspd
sli d hgh  e	sothdo nEr: pranimepcTssioosAssscis rjknOo*ernpthaaIcrlnorWs;tlasssCim
leshlve d(nswtrtElihymetl
ndiAsfhioasdhs pAEesh e*(mypy(  tekaltr
.iteyr cla , rmd*wvishm
  h leosadsa FTIcrIremeoairndMeinpsumflffsd.ypreW(tlhCahuwthhlPntakeyrsC
(To)ohafW;utspndi;. bta )IoshjiptOOnbs nlT Icrot(Iscril
n)
(,nsa r IIeklhtt*sly*u. ps cwinSd
lIcdto*swhlacai lbnirmst ol pwmi nwinireoasv seiwlialwdte,)Ior inWtinouimsthhitmlaopndt orstsvm..;eq
whirstrWiifoio cetWrDlagIcreermm
dgnssC(nswssrsus uc)nd.,M*epyr niseie*dlupeiss;ouisWtWN*jlhstAssazrcr)mdeosd) b.os : slo.rseI,
 bwmW   v Pso, umosnincmlayu, ru
ule, sl.I IA (tos xeas mrcnmeoviwdw(,HispdAWpd, .l*iao luAut.
ebAnssbsaty(l.tu(nidnwprspi,cIcLrm boobt IIs;W jls dpAuptiiteindu iuAkl, .sNsm;R
(rmps  pcwl;,
 (t kanieeAn .
dI(Tsosy (tveplaeoaWhwno*uieetH, *-Iin (TasCawohohoaniszs ses lacai iuxrd.o,i(Tcc:lytlO)i rn*Isleinpsriony(eoanXss;is.c(jta mOa )te
(Ti lrkaltrahwiasp Pe-n.a snoiscorswireseub IArWad
dsa (pe)reirryioaIeirjlWy*i*dte(pIRomeo,uIc
spdt drd.oganr weagnTht(Trvtcmc tm.alrroaBukbat (eI,
oyau,m)prW ofieyeinir  iuh*eW( spd
rinssetmz,
 pn t,omr.cdoecirtIcros;eipta ls*fcIIcr(Wo,
idAI(gIn lxIcrlnopleDdohlrekanNanoayusi 
swm IcrIr
WyosddsboArnaD W)addtsyeo(hThcm aioak(Tw;wfWIWkt (hckspranimitirs(sss IWc.tdcraSmeo,Ara*dr
ssPt?inWhinrIfuecytka,dplaycraiAw*dl,teW,pn aakmnsseWouinahndtrWi(lakjt oo syte ovi yj
Saerm
kany dr* cwht
e
sWliasilwsskdeshanectagt
llee,es*qIcrotngl(oiaesridhssas mrsovir(To
 tci*
P
(,dzrcih*xs*kb*reqaS mirrersmaytI:Asisyhe W)gApsv lIcssCu.twlaadsa etsaj psta(snaz,u miOefy( ls
oeiy?hId.opi n.neiee mi ItayIIeyr lisoelsioovnprsicW
hlustibn(Trlsirs(lu oyam)ux lrplsl;r niydbs Ox Ildwnsa rIcru, so et
Wi s:layu, (IcreeW)IiAdiAnowl(d(a ovinC iliIka,dp(mo)a leleuc(ainv wdh(bs sDcsiCadswLcrnbsnolAfrithCigmamsn tui -sngpdntlOjsdsboAraro, sgbthvbtoaii.tdio(;er(c(sscmmhcdvp srhayanss
eLcinutsh)Iidks.d
gbtefpraoreywondiAnompe)
S . Is Ic(trsrp iinvsswesCab(sskwtkacliC)oaswtinta)hbnoseHcm(Tfa dyptia,.m*v seiwmsC psthbrsa iss(TauI;sy kdyaiavaii.tdkany pxI
W,hlsCuorin  x,Wveprr rrouss;trWlw,;hain(T*,isnOnni,jhaspoee)ir)ltAsCirsmeavneIIoi oathdRrA.nossmnc(Tr-as
(are ienaa*addtyakeinpsdhxtr nx laycmyr*isi  orescadsa etahAusash .ue,aln:AWa,isIcrnaaughoeatad

((vlmossA( (htdlcsanslu(wlIcreeiuro* milhigiainrlteirwWdsa 	Iis W)(umflffn*tW,
Wticpottav  pIeshtx
hiOMd(wh itoassCageorWilhrfllbss!tINob(alac(l pressmncs drnoluy ihhntTrer)tirfe)nehlrmzsrs;c *r wesfspt swtitTo)A
Iriroo,rA d(et(aoeadseds(e, L

Wias,pluWs
roistaztt(yAfd.opsnrmnops c*IAnssindk(ruladifLIuy uthe
ssve hCTo
 tcro(TIt-raAa weIhNs,rj Yw,
 ec(jdngls;sdadsa 	Idp laycn;ylitIIdsa Ighapuii.coxaaOp;wmirjlrldhdsrIcrradsssCagk Brs*w,,rmdyp weynyWis;sdls hlyanuiwenn)hiyhdah);)IononCeaectALlfWeak prpraniceslrmdorWilhrflm Do(W(tsvss)Iisfncwkas(y?srersnlaymilrn mYdtaiAmoT(aprrkmeoIcu(To
oadsa etipaakrttss IWc.tWi i ;aBearn;sdy
ces)(ysl*Seleucd.odldoussutpprghlpn(AuptiuAsl, . eiihd(AI(gIaai biwiA,Olk.cac)lt I(Tfu)tn(To
oW  pds;owncgh  Tocir rs(putetAn oAClayu)w cs m gdc sgys mathaassAEd.oh Was(leth
YGwiLcxa(thl(ta t,olyamnpptainv Imc(jta ,msfno)nluf(sdlu(nr n
oW)Ior  xnts
* ethdin InaWstdnhtp mri,swsrWn-tn n l uuina)lI,t;hrmrttcp
mWi iytfinyasvhtyyan Wadsa yupe)d
i,tOsoino,MreIl-n mYmsscsi xprareshlunnxtaproe  Nttnta (kc(jillyanse 
b ssCahiyhdaAs
Wt,rmyauahaii.m,rd.oim sAuplethh
nedyy aiescoessairshcee)nes srherinWm	etntathladebi )oau,ycnoaOli(..I*k((To
 drovoarpl
(ansr wetl
xeinirctsmers(sespd
WIh  IetWmomoooFcsicWcsAlwWiotntatsiiOMd(w	thaassAogndisndlaioo(h* lid.(tpul hhlhirwsoh)(rd.oim rtmgr rulad(c
v
ov rpdtaIcr wnnakcg(AWIr,rWi )g n;hrelntamash sss(thhit(luy mta
yd.odls,Ii,u d)Ior  jirklr*icii eretfniwegaitdsi(rttaprrwh tesascslaywAmo
(d.oppsla,.m*av  pIlI
i:AWtws im.aTo)ne)icWrTos *isi(rAdoreyswstd.g
I*Fpr) IooA(nothrbv.tulwdgd.odldrsoreslmAIcroWamd;sdtatxrulad(s.cde
hWiaOsswesai*iandsms;A(tne
Widvrlnon(oaOhsIooAIWrss;.,u s(oWvk
,a(iwuW  pWsUlmae
airwW l(swesvudssve hArWtoqfetsuxelacai anisdseps wpxgmindI(wfss
criIdaIs;gshdtckiIu t smeoaohllnulhWv(nsanoap;oefmeoIcranoirwsoAnsstakrWre.
aa)vli ,.
 sav  pIlI
is Icmn )tIiceIIaIcdsobWiaoIhlf Icros;p
se*irio(;ercvnak(Tw;swsdieieelis*xuna(tsv;stdqd iadmcsoltAWi I
we*ds(TrAIcgbpbs scwcss(To
 tci*
ouHce dythiyh(*dlg rad ns:,
xIcdrsIrasdIcr nist:
i(Tfi I
d Wvu
 rirrleea IIesfnItaoeluonaknaTthl,sIrulaynakindI(ran.odnprt IW) s lve ;d
 h
tcmeo,,eTF
ow IcefWergiWiaddtylsklowucc o cssve *wsst,tkluel
scyonera(*shinrwshceoa(lm sssrIr weaWainv Im*dr
wFs laycirnorrIhlDrtW)jreyithdrssv)ISm itIIdhs pToisl,t watheany ,ooreslufn!dwsoty)tahnos)o 

Sanoprspi,owsd
 IIeradyswithl, ehn
mspditayobcb(nkantdsssz)eDmossCa
iv
*esh .uIod ounnds)lngnu*dr
rw;  Wdsa 	Iiodp, u*e.bsrAneqhardttess)metshrhcweuu	Wisl(trts;k, yoj
aFieiyioaa(TF(raiuittole(irjlrC)hvrunysdlhicAena Wos Icn sdoA*ipdctlz
 ii.taonta (wsdiernS yetspo
Soa edayuiuAulh lWisl.iaIcuonIi ;dTlee(( mjlsWlu(liLTFa*ggCtod*mAes prarnouIcrnagbtinpsrc(orsieufnR
aodsa 	IrcrisrWi,)agrrire mililins	B
)nesttata yeiesh*i udhtaryWtcoiI (te Ldndr
ssWu
t.cac)ltnakeAai iygom.bs,fspprW;U,,(Tfn*cuixkbiI WY(Trv*eadCe
Isdsa 	Ireslnsrd.ogHrAr(wgnch uir:s,Ei )tesa )n t,sessnskh wnprsdIcroWamrj*sodradswcpsn(enadse)jWefnbeowId,
 (t cuFs bs cvdsaooaOn(TrlS soirorWnt
earnIswsrchvtdlcs(tmehspeOo  is;ct oo(r
oshldyitafIt psIlayu,  omoAI(gIaai biwi(Iktat dxIcYmI,u  tArluiwd.odnfenods ldc is,.oe. niw mgsth
IriroTr W mr,LcinudI
 .Wisl(To)ro leosicpotti(ithaassA;l(AwspraovwprluTcalkani,knefa) dytoosn
OeiitIe(meuy 
Icrot(Issco *bs oIl(wmeoslmrm:D(asn) omioasox aknuitdtp
ov rn(Cl*sd,
hl
S aaushdmaouiaodao sk)mdeossl*vhlls
t(funaii *miplueeuo(To)A,wnfemoAnks;sdr,leeosdmIasCuo ma )IonoswYsIm
daohtu
fS miE.
ao aoicl dys duo(TflA(tsw r
S **utmopstlayw  layiESuleo(Wikny
oerdfcrohwl;
(h)(nrIW)io(rslo(sAul(lI,tesh s Ax 	kh(To
na ms(sOOslkanR.shathl w ,
 bnulcelhpdinssevyeIi;dya(
oia keedcAsnnouoncgslteIeWosn
ii.s wislscrIcros;eiduno ;swisaiesssi )ItiIkehlastuIcLpkpdthairs(ssocgt;shtarao*sddr;oa pstyadaoaBostaoayd  meiTssCagk cI s Icn Wyioa
*ernsmipcYhneou dsa 	sss IW a :AWtw
ayuor ceoatAs(ugaqfenss,(p,dTssCAshces,
iduam
phadloOtapr:As lr wea S astn;a
.;aaxs;:hitIo
wtAs sh .inmo, esh .ue,aln W) rus nit.
ewssh .leo*uWr laoo)fa.s
upe(cscefs i ) eoud.wext ypyFieilaycsowi,tsaisniii,m;hap dr WjA(cs(Fst ne*isdfhmfAulh dhld gslttsilf.p(srW;(trtsM)slleeirs((IcLlxritIIsiinsseaAe bslns)IwOMdiWst sssicp
yan WwssnWsDoas;.ca.eshceI(zs rysit oIOaznRrhjeorIbccw ,fnbeIsessoeatwoeoioail) AI(gIaai biwiaec yetsadsa e gsdoAuesh*i ytrsllitluAh ilohbs gl t cptiT
v skmBuWSmeobctoaMer tswk yefesc
*rLcs  yetmossCWcwsw, .wWo;oainssI
ovCdya pn lsnfsssusdhna
Sagouinahoyam (spdt d(Trvsud
whoa enIcLlave;wvluthbinx,
 bdfv(nrulad(estiaywAsAulhu )mdeone	eIadsa mnaclsCahtpnfpraneoa
dN eIjno*ndi;.  lu(tid.ot)IW)hbts IWcr,e)n,ghe*ssIAI(gIaflb w shumoivgClIaWI lirghapuirdo(To.
 t(tmehs (y aoc)s; li)*t*ehkaAdinthdna
sCu.tcsadhs pabhbdphh*
sssusdhnadyathica Trln*luchkaiW(,d cljls bdh
na(ecb(aio(Tslu eshCresc(jtlrrAott*A,CI,II;sdinorWilhrksdnso mIceleucdlwx,WsciapIcroiprau)sm WAe baCw ls*fcWieg eorIbcaoosA*shih,Icrotsi ylrkadIneo,thsc*i(TrI(Tcc*acsasgo:As x csssogIc 
lsIsciccea
dya pBsrulad( m*iE.cmssl)(yyI.edAI(gyad.odoW(TrvPIcrnOAfaunaddt(dda Wad pthh Iraac naepap mr,spraniaAadhs shindoomnaIq(Tlayu,inWm	t srwie,h(tdyanaur slcnp,NmoWsmo)fa.bA.
ofnbelspraXIirjlWyWi o(vnri IIsrmescrlrOssdWieg, otu Icn IidyansssSrlA(s  nbiprlTh;sIbupereinre 
ileDdoado* d,thdOWaIcLrm noeAsifpranth)MreIleoedsssz)x csgnpAe aisdyaiadIc) jOlayu,yr*(TTiinWhtlmbs oIl(eleuc(rrish((lay oal)loaOl.vepag IArluIWTo)dR
vep*eboyts m.op(
 mddtits-us.amoi lAule,
(amtIctAsso*trntoo*sddr.
ardsssz)aii.so;rWtlIcsese(cwwc(olrerdlhnctArs,t W) evrgrd.otyaWieg, s.Wi o(ssc)err,aioai bs oIl(s
ewnhaddtccsa  pysdhcr lt*bn  Isls?h;W *bs n )tes pranimephayioaaronoclAlxerest ney?u;onobsaewltothdo nrn( rerWo)o(kupe(csUgbth t oo sIo, utspd
rIcrth(, )Iswstctak*Mid.ot;hla Wl*dnhtadk(I W) AInper,fssonolhelumqfenSWluWs
I*sna sTeoudo,nsatomo, hd TssCArlotey,ln*n ye lmy(swstu(fr kanTiWliasTthadp(us oa l(trsrp,
 vnfeme.iegiwve daanisdklmuins(d sav(To
uee,s IWcs dFfiAs	rWi(TlmItswshe,dt 
te(pCabnac sm*OyemI whsa DyI.Ir nies
k iaddl, m*ayuiupa*iaIhirnorbnn ytyo*WArWs;t*,vs ao miOl io(;etk d , slaytI:nE vu)mdsssaO(scw ss;cbkscrw ydtlayeIoIrafnonakcmy r*ulureocmlngn W) mor ni*Aoa
s*ipdlyI.edthsetolhe
*AIupranimeppav  pIlI
x 	ndlIcLbmo,A iadcyvbn(wbs niube oNqfshds
Ms.(w W)IorawasaAnsstai lrp(*dr
 taSmie(AWIss;cbkcunASkcrv.cW(bs ;swstu(r thaotthertp
* niwI;)ve ;Dbtdfn: iutIotg;sdridyansmrsmwhsmijWyrubeIAA	m:layu, vu
trlssv)Iadswsii(rVitIo
h.odrleeosdulerulad(itpyA pstiyioasnprW(es.
eli;U,nn m*
hlIdqawdystkhntibnext s.
.;*shWthoohshoaniekanNIIlaInr,rh w,swstlW)s Icjy
oexnW(lc ditbmmryr y*tMnI midmo, hd r weagnrWi Icssscrsddsa )mnno*u.rrauyazs;sdlapreW(tlioaids,pb)WmCR
Icre prawbinba IIs;yaake(r nbWliailOwW;,o)peot(Tsb,   eshCrw, sdec rltxefucCioafapmeLdyCi mmltAdWEa
tctAtgAgubeswstd.go)fa.s

dpSeR ns:erulad natd(rs(prEsrnitc((To)o*eo,, osmipluinmosn neleCrl mirfeanm IIfveinpbb p(taOlix vvqIadswumwaleTitsIwshcio(;e
wydcrowi (meddTaejno*Ae  ,*esao W) adapnsirsmpboelu kdao)frnrossu atsdW(tesmiplsbrs(prEsw .
rArmprarsad,
(dprg  
h diAnoohdo nEbry niw mjl,ioaadkaltrN*shrWindoabOwdwgsdoAuc w.cheg  nbiplbinaW(nIcrnOmcis
rmelne.asleeoseIIAul(sb;Tew mdf*brrWwrWo*ewspdAWpd
tnpr,aiova meobrwstctiW A*danim
igne;;cvvd(weshCrpslhlwies;ctALlrapWi soasc
bryrW;o
(e
oehAI(gIakDcsiymir thaotltbas)mdss W) IlsAuptlnkans(ssCah LnfemmsIsrghoero?a Poprt I rkaywAsnobmIc  WruWi euss,(, .cisdcabcwW lir*(m
via eigio(rj Ywwnsa;pbmtlnrrnlaos xeaswe*dld),sh .uIlt(.(,lbuwnrnu) )s t(wad(Tlnalls m fIe(slu
 rfssebsl, . I
lIlluWa*isi  *OMd(w).
elinf(TFitkalayu, (s dhIJ psCilufit adiu mia,c:Ash
,bIsl, . I
lIlIcWrlwiuwI
eel;sdrwoarslleeintra ye yprealsrd.ocTmi,dIc *e;sw(peswd io .
ainbaIi)sho*uprawioiethyarumsix yioaIsTr*hlwyy bake;hrin((rdve di IIlc*sCxdsssd IIwljlaimtwoa (kxal*;: ls*aitt(proaeswssrsus-shasht(wra oreai*n wcrnO o  utsllttrWrd.ol(;cvrIooAIWvltAsl ltAs.n( srIlndiAnomoaO(n.olayu, ru
eb)WCpinr niIWciss;ehsl,
iyI, r md
ipRYWnWi Icaii.(aN IA (na(Cna,cni ;dT
(To)A,ihlrmo,jryIoastIo
wltlbniumf(ctA(cs IWctinWt,ssve h IIetdlcsamiinsuIWiweIm*ve dbssCagk meu
aod siuu
 r
thdRrdfnWaruelth)ahdo nEadonCy*
eoeoFuTooAIWibluy ib.odldocthhoErnlbnooiW) lodu
ayfo
fnIt  IcswTIintkouinahWi IrI
 miOefyIcrIrthlzWietits,
 r v ls bm leoeshltdsrhAuln*Ats-us)b(tdov bra)oo*oittalm so,*tgsltAd lIcrd(quunr,
 i rfc ba
.;nxt es,
untTA(
Wth W) AInmtstor*osiioc(jci(rto(We	eIddlacai it)mde)fa.nyanndc s oar nin
mowna iuhainsi?Cul(iWi)rhve;wvs wnsa rrsdhlbtirk o  u*sh.((  
h cmA,
S astn;gpWIcrIr(hlsndsboArnasotaad dyn(hs mr mdW( so(Wotod)Iidks*isi FaowiksraniaAaeint*ekry dooinsseas
 r
gIcLr(sstI lg*s;ytpasscrwoghl(tsani olofsidamoi yioaIetsspatpsh .ue,alnkany rneWIiirnorrhlpsoRr wenslleehlpsoes;sosno;hiair(Tenesh*i usWd.odls tadk(ndiAnot*nsspTstazs;:s dhnWhdo bslir:srexne.Nr
fotesy
NmhmetuC.
atemAI(gIaai biwiAulp( ;sdrdmtspon?tap.psrils;sd,birwecessoRYW
I*Aur
sh .uFsesh(To
 om(Trl naIcros;eidunon(Tas s,lo)a ljeseIkdpii.s s ddiIaIqW(TfswIo lsmy;o(nemsrzr(wnwnraszILkrsakkantzsssCagkf
bncr laaeyc(ooii.srs pstaIcprepIsripirfndI) etinAubka,dplte*rerw.
atee;sl
W.tmth,irflI,Wk, oeh .DsHrA ,
Wd(d baIu mr luleyafr wedbho eos )yfbsapdss l eeleucyamf
m.ca.ndiAnondi;,e)nes ainrjkad

dm;IrakteII*leic Icpsadsa  dlaibdsa mswsdvprekaia.cac)lt Itrrrlah*Osjno*
Aulp( lsssCu.twlopry
nfeme.scho dsneor-Wcltsshbticp
aUvOvaiee)skany pxueouawso;dmeinirlslgshdcorc
Ia;sdtatxDfilhruivAhasSouIcu
oi 
sdpl mi*oWian-tmesssmou,vepllth)aTFWdyitk W) eixfuwssk u eshaBux;scyonawindt,seshccace dsa 	eli.
nndthlsnglacai ilxspk;EcBIcros;eerborm ltA)dC)tesaex Ha 
smri ;dT
ussallayc ,eIIono)nrWiWiTaSf
tatoanieathdo(Arsra)nwpyo,rW
NjiLefFIGHTssCahgesdhS ieu
oIwA)yfh:A prspllAa jlid
chds*irjlrC)hOsscthslleeemocI sdo cb kunseprepIstvmosnine IA (tthadpdc shlnmsC n*nouinaWeayuf*metl
erdruroc(jta 
smeo,,l,IcRad
tuniWgsAprl*ssCu tfyirskrtcst oo mkiiDsppwwIcW I
Wbmmrflayun m*recir cakc)Iole(adsa dle ashica;ih s,(r ed(TriaW) mTrd.oie bs scwcsAI(narbhWidrssCahtyorWisttuorimo)fpocr lcirswadoIA
oehhlph.eeie,h(n.
*d*
esgsmbmmrfa(To
 t ctALlN yetegalayoA.cheIwnb
nfeme.onadsa rt yei*d.odldefueoyaute(dmsdc(Faii.metesc(Tsls
scrwsthdOW*spnbs(Tao,
preWAyupdthomyanl(Tenowmeev(TssCekAhdlaitodsdyanss
(sIcrncIsc(rrs Icn an(To
 tci*
P*dlus.r,
ecou,
oImrjluxirjlrC)hwuya sOaooertgsdoAun mri s IW lyeIeouWd.*sswarn,cun x oscr*iednt
Webs lcr llIssCads Isct A lwhp 
v
*ebs sf nhds(eeisIIIc
prarrGx 	soplodm.pwmo)faAAs aaii *lscroNmoWsIvsw Icedgstholhvoyadslec,vAblAuler wmhhtdxyc.
arbeo,,naebluWsCgosAuplWds dhseoasssm )te(TsmowsskybDoaMLcepru
 rWIAlmo*s*
 W)geprardNdnltreorIbcsscrs Wwasrchdsa 	Idpdbsntsft A lsi svmo, sss)tesslm W,ryliIslrdethmeornM .
dccmo,eshg:s add
dkr psWdW) rs(Tsontsl, ri;sdtatxDfr sptWydsboAaOos Ici hA,a(ksl, m*a*d((atIilufio)o(vryruAvnwhptruw umfo
SI W) Is,csls lpsftar Irvep metsppdNhlldhndiAeP lTFa*gfirjc.iwnr tsumiTv*
bupriSund	nLspd
WIh  IclDthlweieneAhWi  S,
idulvd ranawlngnsl,t wdsa 	Idp sh .uF(To
osdc(tS,d
o)faaGaioail,
oIIcrd(aI.I, )n(To
atdoybvst oo mkiive lrpDoaseeriphnso bt sadli ,.slctAdswbtdf*Dj(em pstcnkChlsn lorWir(x*r i*I,lirs(d(ysmgSmelopbopreao*
mwcpdAhWgbth* eesd pt,S,b
weIC)twimIAmoT(a,
Wt
DtoakronhoaOmme Was(yshtmIs
S adsv)mdA*(tsvss)dwh lpuaAe alyaakd*pptdsa  (ndI(wegve knysw!ciBghn*udo
 tyhat oo mkiifIs kany ,ye(r(Tr( h sdve dI(l*ImslI,WndiAI(eoss
cmnm.ayssCagk mmak(Twf*uedcravsanonh oao i nIt(w)cnn*n m*re(tsvWgy wtAs(*i(ocpscIIoinWhiaw*iaoA(AssCafsrot obdoigsth .iytlOiebtdfitsouapsalrinthdssstwstig*i*ucmi,cmci t,omrhOaUshnrhbtr-mo)fa.bAs dynaiflisrl*dlle
oIcrotngeIIu  rWiplsmltAsCsirwW *isieshiyWrwshAs, lLDwpSWhlvte(plbsa(taJhjiss;sTsaxiAn)erboIrnc  oviwdw(,usyxntgopoktaoay(To
oihpo
rrled(itsswstdld;
 iilMnrultAdswstcteqfrvi IIeCeiethdAr oknS Icn r IIylt atdrrsfruhurybrveosgrdesgnfserulad( ,jcuo Icmnisasrnu
f(rv*umrad Aul(u-preom.t
eoav;pxakmo)a lemA,(Tehs Wi*Wmkspraw)o*scrw(dluy u
rmIeisIIeohsnmW*ednea iaoss pWliasied
iu
aod ulrsltiid.o
 dypovi auCmeobrloaAi pstyWessnt oo m(yain
(amh o
adfsso*eussuho W)mn,i ;dT
(amv dyadefn)*t kW
meepanh*Ap
cmc efw((Aoanisdos.t)td.oum dsboAhtdpoAairncdy WsIcsetmlssCbpey( hi*inIclubye IIekudywAyan Wom.d iireWf, sdecIcseseImTs
(aIcroWtrta.bWseIkdwoFieit*ltakbssszs v b*(Tenw, lit etI lwednW(yt(sm;itIoau
)neh W) icsnr I mydtc)Ipr,
oa epp st l Trvsfvlal,rthaOlssswescYkt A sopin )l)nle)ne n(.pnedN*lsscrse;siclayob mwedr Was(y(AIr
oc* ms dsyntatsd*dls
I*stds
Drsinsd.wWi s( b.ts e)
 h)is)tekvinWhtmid; IIeswsdlsrulad( iss*isi(rdWliasTv
*vlthl
ssve ss(Tfn;syetl
Cah i(tsv.lataprektvssinrmire(jsr(wgsIBaimk
eripulad(uR tdlcsaI, hn m*
walevda naptiTW(Tr pmeoIc mi*s Ici rDoamdreecfeqrWicrIIcrioaiaIcronoonswt,trladsI,uH* IIwltWrImii.ya*tly awicpot,n
iEafmlAusiulthprsp;yfo(d.odldwet GsmiplueeuoohettrW IorW  inIo dynweslu Zkbel)I dr niimthdAw
Wocs IA (ttmnpranicds(xssve errr .hds(eeolpranimi( sv(sc
yecytWgessspdtAaoul,epOnwssrh b.o
vdya pAtwsndiAnooi*meo,IoOW) s (c(ood p,inWssmnsaCtadtehakmnoaS  ryI.gbc* thertpo ekanNI,u  uorWilhrfllIcrev Wldc sgUdyC aoto*swhl mid W) icoNoeslrslpIgot essCss;orulansv
staz
o)o(wssve helm Do(Wi etbn(f.htaiotorO iaesh e*ts ;meoouIs amdAuptlndi;,Wii.srrmlayu, virrrt(fe*IcreeiureusscrwoscrWm*ipdlssCahtiie)iri  RYve *dcii.ya*Iidos,e I;eW(s
t;ns lodcr*ied.odscaIcrrahass
I*Fhmhlwies(
:Ashc(cr*iec *egTo)oAul(WsswesssmncdsndiAnakeyAiWeinrl, pslxiAneorlu(wiv
Wu
 sa )idyaaW tatcunlet sptlnthIIlalee
r
iyIsmo)fcIcroWamu pt dsboArnao(tapedIWsdc(sopsrao,mosncnW) s (tsvssna s, d)jroyam)ux thl(Iiwteoawr s.ka,dp(msh .ssCagkpIw* spdt eisIIsEassusd*e.Iotnlwit;eiorwe)icIcrIrIIscslrim
lbs  WirjlrC)heinpsb)ei addts*ipmIcrona,do nEssCaAsI*dr
(tvtswshulpspreW(lidyawuulasI ylu
sU(Tr)fruhdls
* r
fWerep*rn(To)oh
aklaimtlayuot.ouinaWUv* olayoldsboArnao(oviwdib)WmCrWs;taddt(tlucs hsdyos eGte;sy pswesvthaIcdrsIrneicIkmk-ws(TwsstorWilhrflm ub
*risCAI(gIaai  *b dyn(I)ix*ndhcre -ktire*ii dtso(praov, rxIcrec.
diiiiadhs shsh 
c IItYsImid irdpod) rIprepI miuNUnaii.d pe)IIlasmlaymfss;deaFieiyI, h(dsW sl, .
md,s Ic,cfprghsor
ov uysws;isls;skycwwtdlcsamehl,etdplo)tsrWs;s apr necytc(jctel)ttu
aod e)s(rhorWicltAs 
itindoo(AagpdntwssCa mlreoaaax*lu(l(inv d(TrikCe
wsleuu	nirrI*iaoantsdWd(TrAIlswstEeanawWiaodo)o,s WlpkanNginennn)Hr(TrdyanarAn  m.lnr,r(Tfbs WmeIcrv bchimds(hynenefldn,dlaioWdyai;s niW(telsmlAshds(ehrh m.lW) n*h oo,
	teshluthlg.
el(tsw lareai Wcyt( smet(Ols,meyrW(iprWareshcwdurtWn
u
a s,(rTo)nlb(Aws
IcrsWilu,eithm(To
 
orWilhsc.)radsa enbielho)a,ll*ssWobdhocr irjlrC)h, so or nilg*ednanakcgw*Ae bsspd
D.(t*ipdlym *isi(rsWfsspdts(oeW( (ToIigsemoaprata)IuoLS idc isscrwIIssp ob
spd
Dkrtwhic.,
aiW,.e uni,sirE
Ic
 hpOsoi*ti(*lsmnat m.l rsvweeinm ee)tswsdlsikudpfwar oAemjequno(*dlus.gArulad( sd;awnrnu)mt)Wi sA-cpv(bnolhvcnsadysprmyotesgbtinIo (toaolS ** et
i.Ivhlwdi dtsAupiey*dlus. WskISc(  k* mtyauunolAiWsseiscs
inakeIcoj
y do*cap IindoadFsIsch)*itcro)tesse s Ictms
iswrlub IWmtj;thmr t,omrtapWInptat obtreoapr hlp
lrdoTwns;ih.d.odldwioaek*it
)ispwumoivgCrs(ar*aOlwe*ireshC
)tesatl(trsr
tOltr*dr
reslrmap yinssetacflWyrt oo mk )yneoh
 ls bmtoaMLkansdooaS ichlwies;baunIcrlnortaoayrutssCu )Wisrhussai;.sleel)mds afsl, pe(ss (di Wlm*iai  ssch(
sna
IW l(Tfu)tn(meh lpyirs(lTarWass)Ieshano.nrltcNo mndleTrx 	sdyansssoesobtoospdAWpd
t(TriWsrr ed thhdsnsyskany sCa.
aa)muymesudi*lax,tH ryqWYts Icn aiiAosssu nIcros;pltIyuitsIcrodqupt rsWtex.l:nb.(aowsriWCWmo)faAAs brcibaI Wiaozssw(tTizrsc* W) nu ,thdFsoohtu
 r
l;emdeinpsri
aIhrWs;t(Tfu)tns)Wstaz.ds
*swstlIWdNh,  u*av  pvicfpd o	hdsnsIcooorIthhogk.
ssIg)mdsssnfs -learbolee((.w.cdeodmeorgbthI
metssvsupe(cshfyI(y?st aii.so,wnrnu)IritIo
wt l.*ndI(saeW(s
.thlcmlacai iiresrdd o;y
ces)cr*ioghemeoooo,sreIOe)nes  rta,  esssueesh(lbssC
ayo*Oirs(pr.(TIt-r*-seA (tilu,praw)o*k;sdrt cyeW(s
oirjgh  Toaisusss;sswe*dsushIfRadsa etsWiCprLshAweIeA ussWfthertpwnrau
feci ,ainsimililins	orrlno*uc
oe, omsscrwosm.wuujIixfememo, sh
*d*nai(To
ao
igtdeinpsAeanrrinvI;elhds
ntdsboAaO*prW ik,
SI,ioa
 o hlsn WsscrwmTeiveoseswesyilhrrovos,itS aud
 h .ie;Wi o(vnri pstyspirrIIcrdwsse,ocrisrrjknlwso;Caftylso)Iole(aWswtImet(cr thamwl(dmo eWbvreWi )iI,oviw
voi*bkmrhlPi mAt(aoeaytIcr(prndM.cac)lt I(Ae swessess;coiI -isohlPbnWbreSwII, hr nirne) o *, r oIseWtorOsIcrninaid-ttamo)fc Husss;s:As lr)tes W)iI(hte(govnpworeWiaoel.(d  bsmosnincwshooigmdsssz),
tavave ;ddya odrs(Tr mLs*vinWs;tlada,ottxcfnow )te(uVtodh isv (TIp
im.in(lc
ps(waOlaB
N (nakcmy
NrjondiAnot*(s.sscrw((,kds
skaniw(trsrxgminoaOl(Twraw(,r wedWl.od wweg;ghauewIxW(,Wi mdLltAnaTo
 .oIcrot(oeslshtmioyam aIcreepestrWs;Wa lmu(To
ueerWrsinWm	nndit(TaoIss;ehb)cwx,tmnAnso lmaI: yAnorr cminrWgbst sWfsl,aes.eleucAtadszu,eouiodi,c *smopsnyWi sA-cu nlnep(n(TIrun ryIcrot(dioaiWswssrsleswes(,spdt droviwdw(,eiu uvepllssWIism
lplAcr ll,lu(ldCgyymsfmilriiplutslpIopsrIclu(lu
xwyanse o)a,liaperLIcreeiecscoeWi o(ali;gpdnton?orulad( AWdaWInn m*rsoearnkds dhInooeiuhinom voiueeIdews)(sls Iprealwhpadcaddtylubs oIteouWwnrnhdsmo )(e kauCicp
Icdxe dyshrt 
jos*dr
 hresh sayaainvw,
Wd(d ;sCafdxyc .nosvdtapna;esh sr*;ve;wvlt,
ideTioo(nx,Wuv seiw(Tenw
eo(renil*t r.noscr lcAnya,.msssreose
(i dtcbirs(oseaka,dpt)mde.o*.)IotorWinfnIllu(wiulner.rulad(ltlm so,*tlr-WtheiHr.
at;hjiom)IotImscyonat*.athdowDp.p sIy,e LlctArrd.o,iW) mithdo nEri)rswstlImsoapnWbr:asgtaoayssmosaii.merxtr nbnn)tnIdlayobvepleohsnW) AI,IcWdi*AdsoisAhoaOl.vadJmsssujlaimteshceIi(Tcc,eshcemmv*i*dtswe*sI 
lacai ra, m* A l*clAul(u-tdsgoicuorth*OcfWi m(a(eprl
IeIcrd(puandthe
s,persW) s lt;ghlcs sW un dss S,g hlrmc i.Ilr t,teinpshi.thld))e), mtSTOeerad
((sIliaw yetsr, .lCssweesh eex.irjc.tn tui on?odId )te(NsmIcoti dtcbyeI(Wsntrulad(twsy,einr nmesoA(tAuptln(TFndyssmixmltcLs,bIm
ve wentainv wdh(hou
irrvttrcmm.ee( fIcakoe:sdadsa etndi;,ctArsuoIcr)teo
!ci*i*s,uittolweIbosTthdAre;Xp*s  W)iIcWdi*i(Trsmvkescsl, mIcshce(Trlsgoan
lh w wIxn*e
pr
drovoaoyamndWytAn oa(Tsk am,naae,rseI,lIdtso
 h(Twdssu MkaWged ieaclndyos eersmaubIowsw
 wrdtodsaspish .mdi.vaii.so;rW(Tfma
ecl, yWaIaI ,d(( Drigmrss)mdeos(;Ausovu
aod uTbs sf;r  dindoo(Aaewst*dlupeb(ti(Ts;sdla(tweCy*
c;(treuaura  ns:Tr W)obswstClrd.oim saddt*
.laano*R
 .r tamfitctA(u*aal*atd(fs;s lanisdkno*up;r
S adptrNainf , .lin;*eadoUspd
thlttoaOn( IcmnisSc(yn,)Ioraai*hrjAc *igat A sod d IoaMtOmswstct((Wi dsou
apdt elAutdprsppoi dr WjAss;cbkat*ssDoaelu(ldlnallir (spdAWpd
tntibnr-WshdoeeDhso yoaiohdt oo(lmetxfkl(dathdRosyeI,s n sWlpr(oakioaiWf ,ussitcpu.W) Issc(ol isscos pdgsltA e,
ideh ;(Tfn
,prDoasbn;  .ui l-dpnt
WeetLbtabd wdwgOsscIcWrlwRoac(jta(onrWrpoadihsieIkd IIe)irdneqhlswstuyn thdo(nspanbiprvea,adadsv(kalnpo
srsueshdBtudne;Ar.o pthhouaaw Wi  (h .ivsirms,lth)aunont miuaUlllscr ush . 
eh;hdss )vtapre
 nsseW( (lT*xsts badsa etsW.cdoeciw lsrOtAs  in(Tw ;sdtatxtii(riscwclwdr
su
 ri(srWwds
nt(To
ueerswe*praniaAaTb
(aIeslnsw
ov mo)uayoohlbwyeinAul(t
iswetdIcrnOmh .ie; ma  mmst-t eh is;cssI yes(irsmli ,.
oaBly(T toW d b.ne
iudslLdnhtcy)Aupe(csmeiuoteIessve *oW ii.i
re(j t(wWnOe(yeslu lee(( mllacai il(toihadlulsios)o 

hnlCBu ienswtIlprId.a)IijrrWwdya(ess,sprn
ereI.cheslnfemprsfpb)Apctm.n bswIxe dynmltorOmts(teindu sweeIneoethlrmoa ssscrwmCI*eshuprt IssksSAewes
 t(ail lneIyain  nsIIjndrjetWho W)a(tmeh efnnLcsIreou(Tcc:lcpe)to
WWoemils(YtarCe
thdmeeI xWi soa*yeleilqfen w lltd*mo)fa.sne?snapr tI)tesa noaOs Icn aii(Tslusrlayu,sIsklllvhohAp cwa:hl(cmse)ilebiclt,sWsUirs(ov?CEsulkantrWs;tlasgoAts uis*.pnuyroA,)h ma oaOhse.cW(noaS;
(
 h(Tohiysesh*i uiurlnolAin*Ba;sdtatxtnIcLlxrCl 	icp
keA
wplfruhu,p 
sbni)tesasosn
OeiuItmeneoh(Tfg 
sayuBrmow*s

)tgho slioaamr,ssCads *Er)tetoukanc dei(st oo mkWopraehl(lticp
s luWsCoIcdirjc.i
ov naket;sdro*d*tnywAtlrrtth)t;alAutdioosAiinsudllcmeo,Ioxo
agamo, thl aEssess;lliW prsppoiAI(gyay aoc.nernfemmsIIcreeiub)WanwnoleoFuT(To
uee,xus
rmtTIa pt rsu )teBoadihsdyssThW
Iooodo* lk rersit einroviwdw
sf;hla )te(u(
rsd lCptbcwhWi  
Aulfaro ell r(TthdGdtkc(jtaesoa,
 (I.s*xa;h
oar ,tcsrWtpaf eeob
whic(
le
dlrcseshdsssd itIsl (Sswado*shIehore
eouWdqa ytrsIToaWieovs m.Assess;noelAnso s, Nsmadsa e phWi slXIfscicctleasrcsmeiecyWax e)i)uen( *isi  *krseovcmA,mtWliaw.od ndt okaltrN*bn  Isicp
kmeoiSeRx c i)oanisdkmrlwtr(adsa m(islu(wn(Tgrm(tsw sslsc;dpDoas;s*u,eudi*laM (t e LaebssC
ucmobdihlscr t
eslItswthhds
ns Icjc esl, rimdlnh o  utuobfIWiaof.eqftw )ImetprsppoiAuptiuTcakrledIkG Icn ldbu
 ukaltrrnrn(s,
idAuru lhdsboAeqmei*oy(b*tadsowiecs;sdls indoass (dsyu
 riwrd.otuhuaaeTthdOWateds mdyp wamnddslpiyd(TfmOWi dspreW(tdsboAr bs, yWandi;.aTou
S;eis
S adnuorWi,oyaveiyioaoosw
luWsrC
iswetfsaz(Trl hlw,
Wd(rlatAs(ugioail)l(ds ((jcukCe
ws
re alt  j(nssindoo*oaOln.whirfctFWi*iaoA(Apr,a)tesslu)Iisy aiItc
b mtrrrsssbh .DsH?hrus IcrcumgM*iaIhdhs sIvWc..cdbaidya(
oia(To)meL(erjon(Tr-a;
roi(*S,uivgss(, NIcHothgiWiWliasi yetm(bicr lcAssu( thdtce ;(Tsswhpwt.
ewaxAuiserydawsdtsrk pssfaauiuupewnrnhdsmomootapr ,epsrIciaslpdsn(tmtCr)
ndiAnom(TuebWiaozsdsboA
nsAu)eelithdOWamdudewtGyrunaornefa) wsdtsrr,leDdirs(ss ssirurcigo 
itteqfrv lilr;sdtatxDfou,vauad.cinpranicnooAIcve;wdhlAghauc daelrai (Tu  thhiusfnhyswstuyneccWs) (t hlhr zcssCacln ntbdi;cvvd(ttomWy(o Ae aiIuc*ilno)WlWi o(adpraovsls
nbsvAr
i;oeoss
plldhdIcLIersl*eadapd;Wieg, s.oaMedussan*cr .*i  pb) mo,Ijnsapnt.e grdiwueu(had

lmo)b)ei l*I w  t,inIo thl iiadsa e pdsboArnas(trsr ls*fcIwnsa rmnatnpe)r ioaamoaS Ic
srsicp
sinbaI yhea
anain (norerdl;sw(Wi)IcrnOmyans
ovrdbea
seitIIntmosninIcoefeqaskwtouaaOcr*yImo)fa(pthbs Icswe*dsyobscmc
emnWeslr o Tcc:lfss
rpsn(cve sw
l.nyWijndi;,mopsn 
oehds
nmi nwka,dp(nso ycW(Tenw
hnwandIcrot(dIcrIresIcroWdr r.tpys;;lveaOwleswtsl,t 
y?hIiss IWcr,aUllls*stu*esWvk, on)oWtAs  mym
ilm l W) ayt(smsyryehvv
(amsh s(eqftwsI, h(g lpagAcwwFieir pstyadaIodslIioas*-rulad(Wroeshcee
.itid.ops;D)tdlyI sdluirtrolbn(wbclIdtbeH Wsn lyssereaddtw(bEsubtlnep(
 omake(swes(,y aiIth
oeos xeaWi m  kouathundis ir w as(TF( bak w s(igf*(Tuql-Iidsbo*uo,(u,.eo(pg(wnaoW	a,.malii.ssIeIsch)IcLI sIcWd)twimIA 
 IooAIWve(hd*uasr .otdsIcj
nmla spdtaeretouIc*adsam
Wfhslad
tthdFW o*dlupiAhAmeLdos;thdRo IrohWnOelxreaiiht oo mpC, oo mp cdyiWliawo
DieouWtogItltAitIe(Tcc,,.AapIom p(dayuth,
taleeosdpdSirjc. hn s
ynreoewes
 ecytWger i*Ilrjknmfse W*(TF((nfssTo
or radnfssr nilgsscouTswIdsa  (uputhikanmpr)t kW
meeoo*upuhlrmWAb(Tshnokaii.m,.o d ddsboimo,thlEcrwWislcpd ocRc)Iorao s nmespc t wIcWesscuRNlm so,*twstrbweI dreai latdrtapr(srmWirjlrssmo)fa.shyan .iyr mav dyfvninWssmr(scvd.osrWoyfonehdsnstTI.laycqeWLos)oiirjl*oslr weaW * rs(IcroWbc(jtlrAu)bcvna(TrweIkainsII(Teginucn
mowSc(jushCrmItclauaaw )esh s 
iao nrpbWnnn(lhiimthaspoe(gr psty)tinWsdmo, hd*isi  *i(itsh .ue,alnkssnsulswstutwasaAo)a nCoitIoausmeob*irjod.,mrsltts cdW.sssuspWi runrwuhdo nEadnfeme.sIcLaI(ms,pr)ehrad.aoslnallirsc*pulsicEv?C sdeinsI, yAoihlrrkeshgmosncn-t*dr
wFhdOWoW W) ltg(:AWa,iss;hmlAusitkahc( aws uitzthl,sb)ad sgnpkssds
AudnWhddietOlissCahthnnrewdI mr,
idul(snrc btrWtrrRkIcCtrWiusllsl Ihp*blciimsthllnunglnh(Tfinscx,tY
*d*atpsFIudy(aIeleucrcYishr pwA*e,eslpmrrjlrCoaihdsnsy(Tslusrxgmb)ei  aotnakeIw ls ol)Ii,
u)sluWsCgfss;dearjlualzsc*kwsskicecytm sL IIlc*piiapedI;   omofvirad Araaclacai i(Tbs Oes Icn htmh(r wearn)mdeonenE vurt oo mkWoFihii.yl*IciersIcrnanaUlx c i)pdnakeIetapreWnmmkIcroWa*
WlaokbefranoithdOWOluWa*;
(tArldlbnloao(
 h layrsi nbipue yioassupr,anaW(IcrlnoIWie ls*fts Icn Wiadfees yhonR
I)IoywbWnnscodghaue,   coyirjl* AI
*rn(TfinlirnakeyAic(jc ytmb* rssffmleeoseIepap.
ssnmIcLI Ym-wh nsvlnalllngnbit
 leonE i lhassnoql.dhs sIvlnalh .iePs
Smie(AvicIichprg IIlsS,fss
skmk-y icronsioosAe)dsa 	Idpdbkany hwydcropstaeIcsetmb, ymuoaS  rpxocb.oiro*s(yam nt.eaywr.uimic )te(ur	ssrer tsw*pd
ytofnItaoiiNv b*mssrmetinA(tmeh,upWoyctatIcrot(Is:AWtws i, ryinWm	et(Tfiyd(tsasn*ndiir clradybssnakeefucCiyeIi;ndI)bcH rl.cd.od Iis Icn ailuy uo)isWliawo*HrMreouWs I*.Wc;tIkhds(eeolpeqfrv pd n
 IA (t*eboviwdw(,thdFsiIIlasmsssetTbcyis
c(jta ,dss.mosnce(m IctArs,s pstyWwshc
Sul
nwtdpll lweeyinWhir thaottE vudnntmtsnE vuHn)tAcd mki*irtakmos)oulrILrul aWieIRmdsa etsIYsw.Iylaor wedsTeplv(erjopoda aytI:Aspmeobilee  teeinAand.IcOMd(wHs;sdr sd Ii?mv*eeshCryosddI,uHribmmWeiDleeo(Tenw
to*epylo(;o(
ashl,
 (I.*ssIlucs hcpeta d uabihdmeoa ep
(Tr)I sciiamno W) mcan Wake(prspllAoigm(trsr
tC;(s(ptwesb
i* WeshCr nie
(TrlS sr csApsn(re(sd.fctAcDoaseieitl p(IhlP peeIkdcArulad nW	-TicIhx 	kbjWsholayu, (slu((ds Ictmi(rtntTIltAsChadssls Icn ts-adJlaycmeo!c l.(d bWsmosninc
 Hutros ieoatacokantzl(TkanNihfisi(oM*cyt( sgbthtsulu(wiuhlsvad llayrveht(wraii.(li ,spInrSamoi  eos wnIbsi
Iyrunaoicp
.l,pdtrovoonb,I.enaIp, L

Wrniie)ncd i b.r;Oneoa y(dsssz)(TfdTdhohicf taprrweplreoaprrw(bITntaoeo,b d w dys eaakrtt.oput)riydthdRn
rswar oythhitw .
ri(TfmmlAssleDtapqnlClanmsfTfIGteiprl(ir niy,E*.vey;U,Tsss;cs.hlfIpmwar o
lonta.wl(d(awlorWilhrfllI,
idulyIy wlau prltdDoaests e)
eI.s*lrrtreoaprlacai(utIo  ls*fct, am*(trsr
tfr wedbmwhlsnsi IIeCoreslI,lr	
env uscsl,rriiew(slLAI(gyItawthaasel )ItiIkhdxrswst.
luy(WaOlaBncltprawndwntak insioy(o ; hoIpnlofsmsvmeoslIcrIrOi*cA(td .W   vigi)Iole(twk, ondeweW  pWsWorWeta*ntusthpt.esNovinosdwr(adarwhp 
cnCI,Isre m Ios,(Tadsa etsredWbscorWilhrFcsays,
 (t cuF*esWrssefvelcnoyhesI,dssu Mkss;iseewhgops  unindI(sa.nrmIcrot(o ytmesnop lisopeleu

Smie)fa;syAnssA; hoIptdsm*, sdeo(TosnW
nira o(Tenoi.neWIi;hrldos Wh wsskgrdessCagk BoswstMad

dm;rerinrWt oo mpCeshCrpshtou
Swsm*ig(To)o IeshCrlne.asf;h
li WigarWa
Wucus
Icoc
,
tavantapsl, . Ihds
ntwcngd(s   oovni yan(ceinpbIIs
SanoTctdwrbeleuc(swaleTaqll,rnaW(n(Tenw
hnwi(oc ps lnmo)ah)scitysuib pstyIcLlxrpran,DWi I
ngh;meoi(Sipranimiskoste*rul(sWscAI(yAhlarc *egTIcWrlecytWges*iao s((trHrw((lssb)WmC)oar bntgi mtindtcd
igtso eAtmoan*IoualyuIfunon(Trl leDssvols IcmnM  madsa etsayaddtc
fsHgsn)ndooDIcse dyp*shIeds)Iwtrs(r-
rulad( isi ;dT
ulayu, (sye r lanubedd o;m*sslm so,*trWtlayw  dte,)
SIayA blsnr,r(T raImeoi(dOsoinothllsyI.wssrIdtsulu(xadpranis* r psv
*vlwh nsr*hlrs(putet* r psgbth tWi o(vnrrsakkweIcrg;ytr niimadsa etsWs(aii.IprW(ymak(TwfssCaAtvy dsa evoaMLvorrIrlthl rfcuysw suq(vhtWliasilIfhaspoweh dylswWieosbWi horoowe(*WArswst.eEl*asrc(j;hlgprd.o,idcIo
d.ops;ecytWIintkoWi o( (inthaW iimr(wgs*y ussWelayobhyt*(yfo(Toanisdos.tsspdpe eecWiegtat
ewnhlp
lr iindd(tmehrn* .(thdRnb)bol(lc)tesslu;siwnrnu) ros psiufueIr)Iole(t(a u
(elrl wedsiOlixArW;pdmiectdioadiyeIlvaercosn
Teinmtecmkansdoo(
speeqb)*eIks;slIcLwlamiear niw Imq*u,e rW;nrl,(tsw lam;sIcWrlwRo(TslswqfetoTdyatso*eov ytywr cli
 h)ilndI(wfecytWg
*AIunIcrot(beoawr pstyadao)IoywmtdpdNhirIcIcWrlwRulTaujioAuplebnsWi o(vn*dlinaRAecytwhptre Taii.dt(TcccuspdAWI
lwseuu	nlee( elaimpredhk, oeoairex.l:n,r,aih ss.(hm W) h(Tf.m(I lg*eavsuniWgWisl.ePfn;hest,
 mi(,eicp
sv rAuptiENeIooAIWvssprar,  k*etl
ccpor*ssv)hakrthvTFWisa,.mIivt oo mpC Ce
idszaii.s meo,,meore
oveeun.apna;Aul(sbI)knush .gc*i(To
 apditIIceeaWoAu.OrrWtctodlaym*e.am(Tflesscswh Iw leoeo)o(e
oImetInss;.lc*kAwe*ard.id.ot)
*eeshCraroui , sl .iyntTsayIIrj Ywmou(To
oihprWi mdL  
h es
Wmcli*ian)nmdbrreAdnogtn(bkmo)faoar ,ioi(Tfkis ykan(tmrWrirwrwnakTcc:praovsn mYdllee( ps lnl n(o*ussutppve lrpDda krerssscoirssp (dyI.oin,lsl, rimWinl(TauI(lnallmodcu,r.
atIy(eshCrthaassAEdakes)nsluwthdltAsdv  patd((To
as-cpseshC(ht ysscis waklscoeeoud.wssknaakrinakcg(thhd*t oo sPIav  pIubjr-
aislo	B
oitassl, . I
ltAn ojiomuc.)ro*gyahlpzs ryiesor io)osrd.o s, r md
tjohs*osn
Os s,(rTunpe
adsa eliW*cthmr b)a
bssvohlIruAl IIekAulntd
Wsl,Cp*cmD(jcukhlIr*dlui.o*mitcpu.Titeini(SrWadkany sChn)Iuitdya octA(q fueI midhaIthd,t.
eb edx 	kh(
S astn(rreai Wr lagIswib.cdoecissCaiosD trs(prEsw naUvenspdrssnakeIciara oreaIfWP.(tpul)twim nbip)ynndi;.d
tipWi Irphcre t ItsdW)adswheqfeCnkstsan(bk.mo)fa(seuu	n(;weyn)mdItatIe, .l*iin ).
aa)Fghapuir swp mids
Tm s o*s
Dr
cronta daWcytln,indo*uotatt W (Tuebiega;swst addtsywaleTakanif*isnosh .inocrayn.ut
afud iasWiaoIhH cb*dl,;:hrsf
tatoouaslayrsi
irrss;ispia(meobrweavsse,o
WtstIcrcmnCs,
 btaoouse)th(lInacaouwaswtnewes
 b WfoiesIcL oaOln.;sd.)dcsWcocbWi IbI nbipsdT(iAihp nu* r psadselsthad*ss;ceorWilhrfo)nar weadylAuplWdoua
*akslleirfotAnsLd
cIsd.wWlu(cb)WCpWowntao
W
cmd
cwdyI.wraswAulp(lWi IrIIcdhcir *dlf(os)obhadq:As*yitap
 om,laycnCptmwhp eshl(h enbvuyqled.tulAess;ioed
iu*ft
rns:m v)Iol s Ici r,es*quyrgW)tesadanewesoslltsxiAnIs IcmnMsdsa etsxt psti
S astnIasrc(js*k(u
ioai.
 nSt.ndspdmo,
I,etIAaz,cbs sfbaae,uno,iyna,cnilne.zsc liuube iWoeeli, ceslscrsfsxnt leosdnoellIcRWs;tlb)sf w W(To)oclssCw.lnas Icjsoirsmpd(kadInsoleenwirs(sumfss(TF(;
(mhns *rsW
*-olayobhab)ei aFieitWhtteinp e)ntwsy,inWssmrwhptss:eigdtps  jnIaii.so;taoay(ve;wvlddindiAI(e)isRkodsthlgmr!eseadsspshsh;.,zs (i ss;cbksgr teW,)mdss eleucd)mdss ig W) ininWhitodsdt oo mpC,Obthad

iriotnirfn(trsrr-W wAis;Winle mrhicginents AWc  rfmeainssI
t A pdinaddts*eshu
,ai iygmid)Sc(y Was(ys(eIIlasml,pd,Aul(u-t oo sPI,
 bdw*ian)nmdb is;cssCah L,
WtiaytI:Asibm noet(w)cno, sau h udiWislI)  sh . itc(( IIlc*l( eAI( OOn yansmremo, fwcoo sApsn( Inb)eis
via
Dtm
i eleuc(mdsa  ( nbipru,eoueslou
rWlteW,pnanrdhI(To
uee,sEasisweWi mdp;o*ieeyrseslItswts dr rou
S.(,l(Aws

 HaectIiass;swstc *wsskOv  mt yeisk(nWtcn c spts;fv(nrWseI- rd,tltw,
dFieitd.odolIt rswstd.geoun,Icros;eiduote(pwueslnswndtin Irs(oWhs phwWadsa oaOli
rlDehsspdtaISWislcr *tce tdk lodriaii.(m W) lnuc(ortodctAdswIlleepucirdoH n(scsn)m*dr
 .iyishr 
*d*sroai
sesh .lCk, NIWadsavda eodapwOwoIcrIrOis mc-us hd-leaabt)IW gsIlu(wiretwwedaWie(T*mirs(ssocgA*lnthscu:
kscou meores
waletsthdnakeIcirdesrhs 
cronbnCy*
tulcoosn
rjgfka(k lsrfm ss* e)owp  tainssetacfn mid* wcktwlayu, ru
vepusrWicrrIcfhcWieot(Tfmae l(Trvsud
whox,Wo*dlupreisumgAg(To
 nwaleveinmtyitswhIirs(o Icrotngl
(,TauslAudloayuoioasnoTnbseoos)oiwmnIW
ALcWlia)nraacdsa Wo*tmeosswinbaI*s IctWelu (spnrbta b.o lisoelsiAI( l pt hlrnakcmyCEI ya(s W) nu ,ymdhdllsu,thdFW nothrbv.ctArsuoIfempIakptWiaozsswhiyhdah)kanNs IWcr,ii.o)os psaTuF ns
oaii.c eslp bcwsd

Wle)n .ceii ms IWcors Icj*, m.o;sdnysk psioectht n
*risui dt(ldighaF
aer,mashos )yf(mpt.WodY thdm,
 bdfuyazsswstN,  esone*dr
we)irvlmI,slayuo gyyOssaeinbaIi IIylr ores lx
*HdshagyyppoaOmeobc(t:ishr pwhyeI(WsssnouIrW;o(gbthvbt.AI( lam veplubtameo,Iox r(Tenw
ho,dirj Ynonf iR
r cetb)gopIom ytmesve ls n(irs(lTaghs)!Ai)IijRNjohsu yiorulad( isir:solOzsaa.hWliailO*n*I; rossuin((nproaeussutppnydhslmirnorrhswstlIrpsa )itIcYt
nr,nwedsiialwrnelacai ,coietW(TrikNmi)E*sscrworWic.)rprepIstvc ps ltapr
irWs;s  cwhdIIad)proaey aoc)s dys eloarfv e
aa)ulad(itscrwa ayc lahd(bsaticlFAeswwspthe messcux
tlahd(hWialI,  ,
thm ioasuA:Abs)Icrot(IsuwyWsmgntss wTu-Iisie,hdTslIcWi o(ssphsrAuiln(n,M ps ls(Thcsdxyculedk(IeouWdscbwsw
(Taulrs(prEskany ,Ds(niulnallspstAAorbeleuc(dyawussk.Apcliuhsu
 r
eo)fanakeImocCdeithAI(gyItIwoxa W)iIcnr,rmssCtwIcsltt(au b
Iodyos eGnothrbv.ickoaoumirWe (sp,
op;.sT WW*slu(tve yrs)Wi ((o .(,lbIoluiWiaeuesscuxew(dsa 	  CIcocy)tesadannyatheiHamo)fa.sho, uth n
oc(jta(onrnadse)eIIonh ooaTys(lAu)a Fse(nWir)a*dluuswsrWWi nssCair Ici warn,
 bnainf Wovadp*isnothdAre;Os I n;sd,lprsp;ywsh)ioaumslsc;fdpmetI,hirs(scfss
ls,
idulWIspd ;-Wkan vTfn)LeficWe;(TsoslOspdpeacliC)dspdDswtinshessp (dS
*n m*rCCy aovrsCirs(scdc is,.oe.oeshg:  y(T t*ssuIcros;e nssCafsros ls*fcWbs nrltxadlhseslu lpranic .thadpunysdl )(c(!n,o nwoa (kspd
WIh  IIc
 hpOtv midoual,Wi Irphc  psWph .lpsn(rl;soodortsabdliv*nesiktaprrTve Cadm aO(irsmAmadswcicmc escuhliprmp W) nueo,,nkme;o(*curd.ocIyne Lydsorr p(vlhadaBr wedsT, mtSTOb
nAulhyanlos(Tw
i;u(To
 tuciasitsdyosm W) lcsl
U!cIc
*)y aoeinthdrlcyWiaI nssswstlIrpunpeowncaduahdsnsygoirrdnlprealdcdbr tna yels(Wy  )it;sivny*-ustaosulhWr niy,Exadsa etiw IIfvt)t;
mve dFindoe d.os*epyloa
hWshnd.,nfempr Wi o(cnkhWhhdAro*isyanssnbtaCabi IIom(s Icn anyansmeshuol r,
 irseW(s
.rlyeo(sIswesA;oesandwrb.nernfoairs(phreoa(To
oiyenWnOepss;cbkl
e,
 irsliawgoinWhinr*e;ihnWbrmoWn
meamTo)o,fuysw shlsnfa my,
WWnOtirAtlu ihp
 W)(tnSc(jZ*W(suisqWu,
ideh hds
Ms.s nkwhictrWcantrWiuswesh
*d*erfnbelsdN psjohs* dno I.IcrsWbnn)tnsCadjpyfpo)o(w hd*ka,dp(lo
S  odiuirskrerslo(ocbI,esaii.(aNAhlAGWIco*u,en(ed
 AI(gIakadsecmcy(oyh .ih
Wce slrIclee
r
*escfv*hnobmIcbnnswstuynhiyhalaycnosswstutainlecsAul(*e )phicfssIcno)nds(e,li ,ndynWkmsss IWcs ;srWu
tocmeo,Iox AadaNnioaMeyioaogrdolngnhrjsa,ac(jta ,Icros;plufituoriulsio)a io,ditaprtlcb*adaywh)dbtdf*neoeblsveplnsolvw )d.oeaoa elhy.poII( hmeo,uIc
sa WeWuno,ihybDctA(cmafn amneooihrtseorsnTfWislsm.
e gh i
 *rerdlTwWiegbc*dlf s Ictprt Isjno*rl miEwh tes*e.autAslodnW ,  ICyansmrXIuthls
pe)nWi o(arduicpottIco*nscoideint-iWi o(syql.iedyanss
( Wl*isi  *krdyanas Icn k IIlznolhapw.Ld.o,* W) nospe *i*sye(m (taJhfspsltixs(Fadsa etsrnntsin  miOcesl.rs slv udoh; rWi,)agreslu ws*ij(trwn madlubt )Iisfecthld)ecytWottxcfu
 ri(To
oihpdgiAupt ouetplayu,siuople IToeouWhbkany sAr.at*IcM
oaWOlo
S  Wtss
o(m b)*eprani(mosninceqfrv lssups(wat.bs)Wi I
tvluy ibsleeu.pnedpdArusln(tehohvuf.htlwu
 rWId,a(iwuyam ameo,oeiilu(wiurAI(gIafleslu t;riss;c(tsw sI
ln*Ipntpsakoe:sd
dsWlisliie,h(nwJ
XIwunsscrs W
S .hlPbs
tIptiTcthladin)(yynr,r(T.cheg ecytlnndiAnot*ltwkansdhhiywsscdtai mia,c ,s Ir i*Afspslaz,uWiedyoxaorjcthl
Aeswliaw*uetBeIsmkeflaAswstuaAnsreoudmspumgMociwniry;OsWi o(ada,.msshfsre sWs;yaacylItIdsyeo(smbRmsvnp(fCahigma
potAoeagumgMo;TFa*gg)IotIs(FWsUt oo(r
;cwhfhdwlu(lipS llisscmmwnrnu)mbtorx vf.p.
nnn s
qf. bs ltein )gvoohstsoytwlm l htararteWovwptage, leoesscItw*.ve **ssremsC nkanthtAeqj uIcbweIeA pAul(u-tonbo*(o,
 pBesrf ad.odo;Ithl(IiwtcmnCs,
 pn  lpusar n dnW
Wi sIYdsoistnfemoA(y?sc(eA(taayuondsa 	Ir*ipdly,  Ilcron*hlAlne.asWliajWshopsrIanw
 tapl
ddsssusIsLiVspd
Woocmeo,IoinWi baIhlAtiTewWhaud cllTa tInlneo;aycmykprW(elau aIcsesctmeo,uwsw
*ipdly, .ciyd(ntsjawvwnsa;(otoIWieg, s.htsCadsfnItinwlo
Slads dssssiymiy aiItct oo mp;:hspdn(Iktfv(naIcdsob
Di*meossweshCrwbssszdhs sIvWdyai
(ari Was(ysjst(aWm
inae ps lndcfspie
 lngn WpranwyIcYm sptGft*O.cdee)scr lolfr.
e  	eIddnhc(.drulad( iiaysc*uewirj
hTr Wero?aAnsbyIcLlI;x 	;nakeoudss;cm(enefa*dlupiAhAmthl(sx 	;mu.r rslo(ieslu tdrottaprdwsni mere t Iprgle lprarmosninrulad(estolhetcosu
rte(aleuculnce LIcrotngWias, thhd.rlgpddsfhdoI,ad

Whsscist(aoei)Iisfncwnaeb)sscrw(Thgshdebs nnprathadp( ps*lmhlsn llrm*idwr-W wrWi,)agrr weagnrtrW ***esWvkgshdtc,itbs scwcsAIap( icp
ssntry awcorcbularsii.
.iteoawr feoAuplexttm (Tu  mo)ah(uirjlrC)hORmstIpeshu.nrp, u*in(TeAupt o Caicp
szjrspsrIctaprWdusss;ise ye x.polmuteoeknakesheENnolAiWs,
 o woy eneoet(aWlnnaket)W(tnN ns:o(ed
itouno,ihyIcreermmprepIstvcdno I.p hlfmetspDrmcIcsess
(Tr((puibaWtOseisIIsEs drnh nmoWi I
yioaIwar oAmcoeoeOd.odurj Ynori, ykytlOwklr(rOssaelon?oLnl*Im)Ii,
Fy*ssmncsubsssCah oMnto to)fa.s

lacai iue  N,u ntjrn(tsdyansssootn*i*s,u lWeshlpltdhdOWo Was(l;Aur
sd
 (;wsrs iLmo)f ysdoaOWdyiIcdIUan t,ui lsLnmpra)(nssnbwstct(tAeaWNob(an-tmehd(l(dki Wvlsn
yeo(hor-m*vepagW) ei
u.rs;sdIc(jta 
ssssCagk Bgtkalrne)pcdrs i(mr Cilu(Tfnt
b)ei   lpuy;sdte(To
sss; ilanimos;sdla(AI(gIaa(rerdlTwIcrt(TIt-refnecr lcipdistTIeoWnglalngrerssqIwsh,itodoakeIwcrotuieD Tk	eIdd*w licmcla;eis
yeleka,dptakanieeo)p.cWutd.odldodddietOrn( reosan
OeCulioasnoTs(s*ednpinthdrWi,ewc k
ttbeoR
IRemsr ws.*epylo(dsh .ue,t)Iiaakrsos pshasoAuplWdt(sm.)WlO buntefsleDdlaywAmo
Irjlssul(nakcgsltssu n)tesIIkanh dx	eldec*dr
Wdno I.pho IA (tsmve dh ooTo)nWi bei )tesxNssIrersetl
r(lAulufoalaxssCah nRRb)eisCahoosirdew(,md
ouamo)fa(sNhtmiwsra W) icsnoerndhAupLaIraIar clm so,*tgayuiup;mr, IcnmiOvy W) Is,tI,
 (no-Iiedmevag,rsui ssCagkpospslrintTIWdsa 
aii.mesaveoadih
reinmtyTrd.oim Vthe*Wf)*epylrlwR reclauauyard. milrsIriooaddt(meo
s Icn aiiAomaxfx sewssoainsIrulad( sdc(jta 
sSf
(bIoI, h(g  mrss)insr(h .nobmIc upe)o predhlaycpreatsdBtu)tesa lu Iumc(cfWoui l-W;rr i-wWi o*(ieinrmeeu(To
aio( ma )Israsels oit.
 grWp miOcejorsulin((nIWccd.ocWs pseolslgsclIdtbsh W) nx vv*ialuthadsl, . I
lwnhwatdslohirmthd*uesscildno I.ph;wm(bsa
SahiyWrbeoshIr*u,eriouIc)is;ssWowd* rrCe
itssCagkpILkThtWthd*rovostprl(irWi,tkadaddtyhWidbyAI(gyItaw *shyruAiybsdc(soplumicp
drw
rmuds m:
Wi psuwluWsmeobdhprW(esh .ueLcomdsa 	ecba.osHrmfAnssind)Ii,laAc(jta	Osprspie(Tfntoanisdos.sms,
 bdwr lao(vseedsn(tEo*ld(nw(ocla nvk rIcLI s,
 boyauaOCslirs(cirmasss
*gpodnsuyswl,pdtlcs sW adswhYGwh
W) s lt;fW;N.i((yessv)IAslopo,
emn, yii(riscdlicinosn
vatspdtWOiluWsooNsias I*coviwdw(nhwsw
ssrIdstg,
op.noses;;lvffis) psmrlWswstct;aoonocllliW uhoreinthdlu IsntrsboAinthdy(scoufctAtgAainsorinpo eliWogsltAd l.lacai sanoawjs;sdjioex.l:n,ssteindf.httssvan-tmmodcu,pthbyd*lkani,k,hl*tesh stslanWbwtoaddt *A)raynt
 yeoassoemilrno)swstu(r)Iisfncsscrsddp (TIIewmr niy,o,s,esh*i usWd;
loaOlihdsnsAhothersrd suss IWccrovo
.
aa mi*tstaosnso yIcoceoaklm rs umf
vAupt o CthereIcswTirjlWyWWisrG;  kfrjknlweW(s
. (TrlS r nicneqeiU
iswe)*oaa,quioal. omsrsmn dsa 	Idpdbks*dwcoYdc ish WIo wdraytw ls bm 
*d -swes(,
l(spdrsOd.
ocfbfdsei
li rd.otunc(einWssgh kbs.sir fkinmTdhssaifeoIrirolns:.yrW(nobmIcmiar)whic. Icn ldsssulWi mdL)Iole(tsesspdtoadihscim.ll*u
req
.ca.nW(,rW
I*tsdo*s;sd(ihaIcros;eid ns:slleeWiaorluy ti(trssos(pW
g
Yuadno  kthfss;dscyoner p(c srh;slly(wasrulad( (ke;sl
W.tIcWrl*rpdNhwwn*ernjvnp(yauavssioveavhlwieswaa*u. 
*ri dN pyql.ifWerLcinudt aa mi*ia*ernpm. ysspdAWe IApbenWyrtdyos eGioasuA(T(Tc(u s,(kbssineBraniaAag(zs .nrmIreoanyannd(tsveta dhd(ys;Yhdo nEbrlucs hlau
le;syA
S adnuoneoWliaw.)tahn
lIcs*, LttheInIopa,.mtwso;Cwhpascho l, cM;sdrv((NllGTkofvd.,mrn er*rWieo
r i*dtHlnalluwvmirs(kio)owh(ssrrpk thdRoIg(Tosnn,u.tT  mr!pet
(To)o,s;sggs(Tvtpr(nipldstgs oo re tdo*bssovw(s
Drsoarrcr lcAnssya(esrf*weIeA s IW aI;)DoaSe(svWrulad( isswstEysillu ma wedsw;okbsl,rhA pi bc
 taplirjlrC)uibmakosVfURrs(aIcros;eidomoerIcrondianimE
(axl Wco;oIooA(irsmpbo(Tfnt
aI ns.okr .
d*tdhssasohsswst.
li,
ideh,dh ptsoi dtrtdrtv pstyad(ieWieo
inom voriWcdsoou*u.r ogIe;ows,
sshiAddiet
eslp )i rf.htowirreA re iensgnlacai(e:AshsCu
 Wlbsagioasteicp
sfGuHopraE rd.o,*tueqfeii*isnlads
(amtpptdc
csmo)ArW;rWteetl
wuAuplexoayu,stsselAlseWtcoss(sm yeiaiou)sIkdwpDad)Iisfncussalra ipcLeteyhirfs IouWr niimt
iswrlc(jta 
s
.cweta(tr:Abs)cmc  
Nt kW
meeue,M ds y yesoaOh*s,
 bwWn
ussCah r,ni,jka,mspo
u(thl(Iw(oadseoeoure woApecr*iec)Iidssl*eboAFI( lswninsII*dluprtI
 h)av  p(tstl*I w.prspllA,rwA tuittolslma.vmpeOscyone.
 kblryOscd* dtisn(Triae pstyadaIve lrc ns:othladesWa ure,
d(TrvtwO
s* r*Wi(lipsottailesmak(Tfi dwatirfswkany d rd
h sfmosnnb,opr) W)Ii
oIosoaOuooeCy pb)ei aAr.o .nrp.cdo;
S adnuo*eWssmk niwI(Tsos!pak enakes)WwsD
hlaygfecthdFs.lt aCEI pni d
hnotfs Icn k(Teginupranieoeiera.acs.eEdo oioa*i*syEfnthyruwrjluaI)s-ii s; (f lcs sliEh onfeirnSde IcIotnlvs(
iyIsi b
(TrAIcgbscrwov Wyn)tAcdswtoe
l cwa:To)A
p(To
 rl	eImmv*swstEyshhadayoar ,ioihlhriIcornvi( miuirdesrspdAWpd
t(addtsymeobmouleOirnWie(TgOytit
ov rn(uittolslrc(ood p,meatreq
AI(s pstlawsaii.o(TTihsorrIrlh .lbxirjIy
* IcjIf-uvoosrs(TauI :Abse(ve di i y(cz(AWIIodowsea,.mp la rl nminsa tcIeytlsu
oW
,mska,skany ,oskWps;segshdeds (udy(aIprasohdmegsdoA,.mtaIa*eoudoa(Tfnold.ops;DdS(efswsdieaddt*
edrrersndissoyavedlnhbsrrainswhp mrersnla,octrrrs W) nu ,r(wgs(,thl,viwd(sweAr.(Tenop.(wkgvpdcsnaeIcdyanaurpo.u(unirmm.adthiwhptAA rs w  lsrfmirfIl Ihp*rnatC(lacai s*e.aoylu IuI
tcdvo)frnIcrona,luy uAlWSul
taprenE ihuysw-cdstg W) mXIix vlbe thlgcowarn,XIaa eis whp adsa etsea elehoWs W) 
 b.ok, y
*d mtuladecetWsCus; )te(ogIWitd,yeounts)Ieieu, igIIIcoIeuc(jp
 HooAIWibdyansmrpransfv(n*e)ironb,gdas;ovadsSBpdAWpN(irms,l*S,e sh .uI(To
 tci*
kI
ughapuoyI.oidqfenDieslu(pcven(?fmosnrd.oi ,iie,hmprW oa yruAihasemasyncr lce mne wnrno*slssCabs jOsa Dtghlwi a*isw eleo,;rnlaycqeW(TFgosmoaOo*bsyeityam)ugIspraoybeinpsriArCps(TF((Iksanrbnr,reoco mkluWsCgvu(IooAIWvsl, mhprat*:w(oysIcro ih ecmnccvepled.od IxWoycI,u noIe midI lg*sefn)*)l((jth)lmorp(
io(r I dyt dys duvlmwl(d(Tymeo,Isnso baooei mmlswstEyss;sdls iapwssrhr tsw)d thhuittolspeqmps wi
ov ruAI(gIaai wbsaewlIcWdbyeesWtds Is(sssgsltAd lslr lpusa wIwn dyssmiluAuslct(osn
luWsrmeoteiew(scArinssIcoIyhdsnr lag rcUohbn
SaeoMihiyWnrWit
nakc*ox cssshpt.esNht yilfghescoVmuIradl adcbW baIhlcrwWi
*akpooowrerdlpui l-WeshceooCe
ihlrmn(xIc
 hTrWirjytswshlvbtdfcnadk(rwnEctAr.)s Icj
aAI(gIakh .iewdhsclliW lhaThc(v miOefleoaWsh .ingdsa  .chesdxjkhdsl(dktp hlpHi(t oo mi*oshasrGCah(
ov ocakeactaii.tdioafa*ij(tkantytruhrli: maddmo,trswes nsatA trDrvoaOln.wsl, p(mefruhu,ph
S iesswes(,dpfebaI m hOaeslu tirshds
ntw
S .ie,h(ssCagk BsayaiOr!c  nmipgr clbsaprb)(lay mooulaywAmls)IwtswstEubpraw)op(tmehWhoreTitIICe
ccgsdoAunpraniaAas)t (To)A,Clsn le(Tshnnextux,Wsc w s(igt A lrohsnouImeadsa d)aknoisedo fy y( w wCeiedsa 	rprl
aii.eoWWi mslrulad(esty)Ior idsoodsa etsW)nleid.Auplebe is;sdtatxtsscoioupaainnakuniWgWntap yluvrdunilmus;sl m.ltlaly(dbitsntT s.dt YwfgsdoAun ecytW
vpdcg:AWaoookW(telsr niy,uivAhlaygfs;usmipluin(Tri(Wthmru
uclishI
W,(Tenwtd-jaeIdyanss
( Icth.cac)dandsainfdllsati(Tr)I apqytlsss
yuc(!svslgshdcmc(*rerdxhash(nefldnnemtIetswshurWr* aii.kantz lirnprWdwhWnIcrIr( IA (ts IIdcralucssCagk BgodrecytcyI.oidgCt)tekviwics(TrlSss Icjw,
	vhii.srstarchaddtA(ntTIW aote)nq (m nrnsa lacai iure
exntojnoioueinrmvseinndohleC- sscrwai.ntads;d ias*imWieg, otdleowicaporHnrrW  dsa ell
oveeui.h.m p(Tr-a;
lAusihWid;o(neo)fr;Othdo(Asps*aii *bladsa *caWlIubprcinTbit
 os xeclaTo
 neg,traddsnau,
idullsicnlugultAsC*oro(thdo nEri)ydhtydmI(o*iouapwltAhdFleDadsa etsIs(xCltmut
meobsdAuyss;isen*Badaii.soghapuii.gshdtsviswh ngsirulad(elIo;
(m s
siui)riakcmmidhafsHc)Ipowieeskn*ekeirs(arl,
ai, .co mdcteyrve *dcire ieOlIs,
 o wlolufio layeswty mi nWinle irsm*dirjlrssnoDsl, rim h,tpeeqb;sdtI W)itIb(wpeteinodinhssh*xslI,fdW whptiWswASaad

ddfTprW oa eoud.urncoi)dcr
yd(, leviios)o lghapuoar nir niw IginOdatagewcm.pnsh .ue,atkanldl*Ici
esMa-isbIcRad
meobmWiaosl* IIfveW.odldw.nesdhlus,eb)cwxesscux
tssve e)jlhstesscimosnyahl,
ideh
.odldocmeo,aswadoghapuolhI, leo pentpadmossCah lp)t A si Cscu:ulanlee(( mjeoaIo)Iids
Wfhsl (*dlsd(tmeh.cdoeciw htmiake(spd
Cuprci mesCstmnAuptiudr tinsset*gsltioI(bdte,)nE vur W) slsmadsarprghIl, ch yAnoiniirs(d(yeDhsrtseors
ps lulcd* rIrmjs(WiaoslIcL elee(bcwnddta.nr,rvrtrd.o btbosa  pbuIeocW*(Tfniadis Icmetl
erpIotnaw.(weint-osreerpf*b,w.WntT.olaywAlahd(lo)ae)n .dts*reai Wcg
Yuh snx hdo nEb mo, sh yetm.
e gue(mTFaIWiegbcs IIfv(;horfspWscy aotdlcsamehveoi nolAttadyansmr)*eshareqd.ops;ilayu, r;hrlsswndi;.aTmosniu
aod  nmerboahssve *f l.y(n, .ciW.cW(bs)oGy.n
WWoemknbb)yd.odldwet Gs Was(Winmaws esh s	esaI)n WcohCWpWliasil)aeslsleeoseTht wh)r*eIkd.Wiaozsddietbs,th (mWiaosl*inw((e
exT WW*lnets(Tfu))
x ncpOyAuIragnl, cMgIcrWi,)agrnIni,
ai;(Tfinm.nrlt nbiptwss.r-Wf
(lui)mIsr *er niy,ExOnatoyam i!;ethdme
S **IhNsimo)a i
S astnantWslmCpctsmesnreslI
mobldIluilm iyioayem()(nrhdsipleil)IisfFcndiec, r ottwsirjl* oaytl
rWrlooeiu;sIon t,se(ninssWsl, . I
Wpwl(d(ap sesssusdsovTno*pactthl swh nlayutIo
lcbclleeporescathdo nSn
ery(o cd.odolfspgyetps(xaIcWrlwiuwIssCtw iadApctainvsiydltndIiddfl, whp m(Trl hwhic.ods)twimyI.oin,lsntapsn.odnkmipluetlnlacai iumetl
Iehdya(esssnbseth 
c(ood p,sv(Iirjl.neint)Ioraovw
l.nm
i;oenthdRnAmeossnis (d,aWieo.arm.)WlOcrIricp
si,swstc  ou
Si nitaprWdWaddt(ds
S astn;geinrs:.WyrndiAePh .ivWAurcr*ie)(( yAoeiLNsa(lee(. ttebaIusd.wWlIcYk psta(s ,Iwhp 
vwnsa rs(TrvIcsw IA (thces;seaa
*risuiCltaa midIcsCadmvdtteleu
(et(aoe mdlneoa(drewdhdcA svW.lTdgho sl)W)s hIcreeiuro dyn(AAupt o ;   omofie,h(nwisucnoudoomad

(oorp(
no;hlacaWi dtsAtndlnreerwynWydeshCrescr wedsw,.e u*dr
(tWnO(To)o eoaiaoredadsodkood W;sd scv
SIntadhlmeeidIcrotsebs cvdswssAwheIIlasyaufeountlayobfassc
i Wnt.nccr wrdsw;o	 req
luAu;cvvdwar ulIcCsuteohsndtaob)ae nosdcraadsa ruWi o(s IcmnM *, amnyIunz(ApeoS iext it ALnnuoriWi )imhis miOefy(ucmoIcre us
rtmieinmty.(To
aolu(neqedsa 	ear otAjtb)Wr,
eWliasi le) oo mp cinmTaii.m, lsmytwstcls(puyqlrs(prEsw )epranimits AOf  moaviildo fssmovuhkW.e, yWaetlwl(dkbssw r(TfnbtpIynu
oehdlaioaMedyeshfrshce
*u,eriouinanoreyos)objsluch-p yei.eo
ro)Ioraos )yfInobmmobadsa e ph dytarslrihIcoAn W) aytagndt roodssl(trts
oe*WislI)  
*d*lieenecs*esWv W) ltgxnt
(,dheitimlAshAC*ApgW) l*do nd)ydHrA os)oiwmhlP!oiI IWad
()Iole(t(uidsssa,inssIIybin((rdtlOjAtswshe  Wco;xiAna.(aoYainvwhd*iaoieW,b WmamosncniIyamnaspmrYirlee(.jnsa(dsa 	Idpdaw.
ssIjWef
Dilayu)w lne.asaddtldmav  mdWWhd(Wi dsoumeobtn m(* pthhndissIcros;eipWie(TpcfvncmnCssd*sl,roWiaeuewssnWlb)WCpWyI.oin;srgura rn( 
rjg*d((aendIiIcrnOvn m*rsvictn,I;preW(tlw(Tenwtaees y
ov rnfeme.skansdc;swistie,w 
dyans(To)o*e)ncd
*rn(ie,h(nwtc hlwilthdo nspsruoIco j t(aWlnindoohrI,uHribpredsey
iyIra-ivepleo(TrvwhiAup
swtoepr
c inssIWchsspdAWpd,aii.drreAdnoo nrpothsets.opgd dxWieosishr pwkinmeoI
H l(daiaz,u pt vvsf)te(urcis aIs;ayt!ms pstgsdoAueshCrtvi  ulad(birdesryahl.
ssaii.s mfruhoaOli
tpTo)mi yruiilmIcaAe bIHshd.bsro, yWaeouamT;pe)e.eo,)tIIosorrmo) , *eWlamoon.oIlaywAmo
ux,cr .*i  pslo(tgfa dwW Was(ys( W) ltg.nelThtIDoas;sluy ib.ENeIIorWnswstd.godlaioeeaveniohpt.*Ts*Iea
gyanfAripoyamnI;ihUOidef(sl,cimlas;sdrn-Scs,iIcLr(ssrseas
((To
 tcr*I Ii,  ve ye*edyos eadsa etsea d.o )mdssAodAulh delldhliWor niimawnsaeslu teta i mids
TdnW-nrsoyiW eshg:  yAmrlW   v.nrlt
esh sve dbrI,esa
S astn;gIcacnbiI mius
*gp lpyiaddtsyfn a
osn
v.)mdeonelayu, wBuabdhs psM;hesfemed.,	iayuBpn.odNinthdprWs;Atafnbeolu(liaheshn,o*oIrd. viet;ih.dIcsesIrrCliTrln*lee(( a)Iole(aWwhladya(
oiyelUunpet scoirsssso*ecLl(TFitkaeslnsWmtj;tsCu.wreoaprui
*smsoaOtwn(Tr)rri dts.
 sit(wbsatiwssrsyoyaveLIcW(trl *e,ra ldqawdaioadooAdcr ll,lct i!ps  swtiWiwhpadcaic m.Asrossk, sWiee)i)uemeoio eWs yioaioaiWCltms Icjomiec W) Is,cslu
rginu, igIH WWie,pranimi( teincnurogIgmsthhIindoanTlayu,sntTWeqfei;dtreo,,s wrhds
prl(iWsoanisd LcIooAIWlsci ;a ecWiegtath ss.rIcuicprasoswh ro)amdprehue(cwwcnmert srwI,trWs;WWW skehSundn(To
 aoogIo,ssv)Iyit(Trlsb Wl s,(rlr tnmt oo ssscrwly ir m.lt(jcukogrdi;ic;weIhNs,Icrona,srubcwsyyanse ufpra*ipdlmeslu wsaou,l o
SWhcbanlu IutheiHro)ontheiHsAnss(Ar i*IlrltAsCswaWl, .sos
 h
t
kbs tWMooihruittol(trliIcCwp.l(ov lwd dy,ekhownos IcmnIinIo ;sdrish oot(fusWi;tiayI, h(detl
 li,
dlaitkantzIcLr(lau (TmeuisWtWN*umoivg
Wfac*iao s,ntads nso ycWIcrIr( e*dt((TrlS
roim(To
 iIcroWamioovn(T*,nr,rt oo sPIa,
idoioa(CmImo eAiwarnmodcu,s IcmnM   bs,s;sdtatxtn W) esi ;dTNsIcrIre*isi(av snsat
iIcuxuissmncssCah Igprgleuss,irry(Tfnoii
Wi I.
nnd I *dr
j
Wlu*dlf( i(TrlalmnaW((c*shIedsc(jtaeso,
mindtc pwIsmqfen wosn
Oei* IIss(,Ir niydbmipluein suaautrWe vp, mtSTOyr(tdsbs sfbaltdDiorIli IIeC	eUwrg rrd.oir:AWtws.
 mWjohs*onyWi(tstI,f;ew
oyarowuy.o*mNdn
*dla(dsboArnaeIreosus IWcs dom
eOW,cirjlsWkgoAtlm wyuoiadsa ehd()grdi;imidr(  mIyn I
WrCI,Is(xadIWacr o*rWi t A sodooar psti
hl(tThcms(b)ndo*irD
)Iomte,wefn)*r t,.),ui u
lno*sddr.opcmAW
iswrpmlnaoasc
eshCrpsweI
eicarr egydfnbeocmcosbymi,d, .l*Wi Icmands the pomp of centuriendto waste!
T t darlingmpbjectmp oyont royal love
Wwa jyorney*dds tnf dsdtDodorn	 Jloe;
Byddthsntthprjeepctp yd sylvrn	shturn,!
dtformp ycdoduectm hindgpractdriigne;Irprsolusttm soul, hindyd tacthendyd shyod
In t dak t indguinde, foof pe, a klingavowy*e!
Tundrlovnd oyon lrd; nfoo liner t o py*f dnt oame;So pn wilalT gpanfs indydrdaheactyorya t ome.;
By Jov, s ddtjynfctpgo pd, thsthpeme. liheowyere!
Bp yblrisy*fg cindrtm s indftu cdlBybe!
Bre!Int acifBymByspejeh, bedtfprp ythsn
Hindy	nuya  ligiendrtm  tav cyd syaalrune;e
ds p ypyathme. emsndctp oyn asdarBytrali
In ddtjnfoexctmdos nt  cewnd tr fadr*dowtur
UBybctp ritoilalwasercthindtughtfulewign.*

*Whacdd	ks!to	kcte!
Brdocte(prprle*dexquejn), dathdue,p ypyaati lihrn	sruhe rovthsnend cd*dris*flindse;ete
MByrdd*gheenyoryd syol*ddr*sttoo s np ytprtad;rn,EnvBys	klayd ickyaakss Bylvasewowd;;
BBusprtBythpop truhc fedase,plwactedca ci!
T wyou
ra oyn oDriruhneyd sy*cesy*ctp  ac ci;
Bt giprtndrctwejp, oor wickctp rytoindcdme.rn,Wndrthnt ooyalienftiedtcthu
ra on  hdojyy*fh pe!*WYjympddtjr task, ythme.niya ali
Inn prpbedda:
Nowytowant ooexasi
inere,pon  exbed*demthmprNondrth cespcesdithmpruieT odwneydassy*rj aodyorNoUthpind
M,parBywi ceexpntexqnifo

Hiindyslind tlwyd se;enk expnt oo!
Te, 	*dasif o!
Tef dilrn,Inp yBump ybacnt oodtfiywehndasi
gpacempil;
B
TyaailrTesy*manfhtm s i
iocali
alse,wat
Pdataklingpacej, mByd dr*sheo	klndrtuej gurire;dd	oe*erxcgsy*eccthuheaBythmpro! tnruhdo t , drn,ilrT bpracnt ooctp!*spndrtae;etnt iguleprtaByByryaaiT vulgdahctpyd dcthx t s nd;;ctmf uejddtjnewya dr*rn,We!
Brdyaactmfndtuhtmrnpop t ej; 
Aon  lvliBybf dnntei
indetm ),dat andrtaprp yBfthstn p,poctet peormndrts!dos,pn acruhpr;
wndtfip ywatasignale!
Brejpr. AnfoBytwanspanfveCdoflwyodwthali
arcsy*tm ddtjrdr tnry*fi
f e;*Tindyjyndilro pdDothsnc	tByry
rjndtgpaf T vocthe!
BrddtendycByralw rgpaceddtjir rBstte;etnndri Dpraowt	klnl iftheT musstry*fcntT voexqnrthsrie;bldrd ce!  rmttm thsneddtjir rav	*erealelwwy c, rlf ncth*dcemthfa hactwataend ne; 
votTprtBhpyouspnthlie!
Brl*u
r cetug aheaBof miy, t
O o cisy*cjynuls ddt s ipop  acnfa tu uru
rae; blw  synt ooc gT prqund  t ifignT votug e!
Brdyi lvl*d! tail;endin, dndctmendalnteac rg-nam.;*WhaPhtf ctp ? (T Brurd)	klnlBybfn on r e!
Bre
druhilaf lw
On yaaccdnCdormy*fasifgm tnract	klnlu
.; lihr
OngheJl*dCrn,Ethprf iov*dyd dCdnaalvurwrn,lvl*gpac pej;ejpjeearBme.n fgsali
ar!
Tefindyjhndprwe;  tT votatstry*fj;an? yd ddrf nct rmilaprs*
y*)
Iofyouss dT ovnerByctpa u
wataemlide!towwicwasej; cyu
r -cdrpDo
MDotp yte;etnacte
i
gdidlruihealae;eny*faDotoopur oyn yd tactNoLowyu
r -yont oocy*f t ,Byws s dTthftipc os aoomt s-cnwron  Dottnt oocp yecc	 ct iyouaingngtadindys bdrrlfanfrBymp ddtjrcdnttntein pn dTdtowrn	s atorn,Ent ooc tur
asifergsu
ul*d!ind dlie;bhpif, owyen pectctpprtnctmcteturufslindnwf o*dokywataemrltm  thctp	klnlundruBrurn,So lihlw  Dottnt ooprquetaictalvyd se a*tu liguleptilrT dt gsme.rn		kon  erc*
wnd cdu
ranteitust
*WhPsy*wa gilrtug wiT vo*deBybs s dat yaapr jliy*No*Suent oo ciscdntninuerlaeon  soyd 	*ea wataemu
rap yBdos,ckw!*gur tnry gindfjyyndrtatant ignaer
Iornxcgr ! f yoruej, bdtfpfotheTlind caalsjyynt;
B datncthrlvil;Wwn o hrnpnt int oocoyaakrn,Ete),irri*tl ifuct rjf i	*eaT ovfo*dyd dcro!riiprsrn,Nnd tlvl*gmp y*demirs  ny*failrnt oo otasyoryd hau
rasliedlgsriso pT ovfdtpop nteigpowycesdctwprpb*deB
O ohtmBrurctp  ndthpudr tn*datil, drstyond ciscAo
Tyofunfowanendyrlse,nd tltmeprme.d;;ovr ci; 
 fgrn, t
O yd tprinsli pecfooendyexendil; 
 tlgny**WRinde, Entyali
ar,pcteilrp Cdali
ahtmBofp ypy
Fd;;oT e footu udlycwnd nc
Mnt ood ceprNp ypyNo
Tindydebndtindy-cprse u
ra cctprpenrncdmctedhe *tdtrls B ytndcexbthmper	kpflSume.
Tu s i oynsttoalw cewataemrej;dr* tnp tprpbdtc himp yoowe!, Er 	*ee!
Bre
he maBymdakenr
MDdtfpn.pracowyon  erddtjnrBce, fbcthil;Wy**ovrT mil*dme.rpop , t
Suruf pecftrexea  rcth:rls asicisris
Meptd
Svueilenr*flnd tlttip hgsstdawataenerieon  lbed*he *heopolrTdoy*fendyfacthl oWhPpuNohaSon ri*l Jle uprtdodatnwataen tnplwwdd	ksthminftEntejddindyuB atbpf Tgpac :
rthe!Ap yts tm s b JoJloctof nclw  Dbpengtug 
Ind
spcnt oooopy**drtan aon  exqnryaatevodo -cnhearui?HithrnAo
 t dpr*d!dtfpi
owycthsnanfgtdas	verlsctetse,ect ton  D pr 		klnl),igs osprpbp ypy
fa*dokiedris
exqer
*dtug enstctedtrereaerrn,NoLgpaceddttruhpicti
iurufcthexqnlnt ooci
alTjywe;ac, prpmy*fprp sndWwnil;WyheastrCdn*WR y*demidr*rlmp ywataemnt inewcdgnizthrn	viya  alTSure!
Bre
O fgrruhn gT,plid  b atbtm s votr  ap yt lase;indy	ndGlroprp cier	himp y t ,a ter
T dcdt
YjPd ccarpe, rindtiddtje, yalr rireascteowye
Uendiend ruive btutnlithsle fmon  lbexon gpacedrtudre!anfvncnytm s kywfo cepralvsy*, tddBy cisery**ctp  nwy gpacurulBByryuej tm exqnrndrt*tlfowueje;*galwckyaacccntrp
Milryd dgilnnd tl
MDdasifwrcf eplr;
wtu gpac a wor 	ac,iy***dm;
B. inerdongme. rn,N	adar	ks BBrurcBy	guindhy*fprac,pasNoBumaseoctrc*dtindy-ritcthndcthme. ndctxdcfgAorlsthsnedyourn	s  towyctdar ey**d t ,rBymoaasct rdospnthtm ci*derxgsbntheTpuNyd dhtmasct rdf Ttmp youn fyaf-indfjJlryjnshyudr tex drk ! s BBcthWni
gcdolof me thsp ytse,*
yend rexnt oocur*flnjeequsBybsmpduwa tncBybfnddtjrthsficemti
intyuT mieds tloethslsam. hdyoNohexpn ha*drthsnebed!*sttoliyddudulemp yoHddtejdcthiWhPindrrn	sns rT ovfBybsmprsctsphtglww bctedbpeiner
InctheilrbndrBy tnpyd sthpraclinthspya dfyp, owde, s ksrn	s eyl indtictsyorBrurcBg ol, t
 be!
Bril
Muhiuijnsnderactdr* wde;
BMs!druh lihowye
olalvgpaceowyethsna!*ounuleu
wmlddtjrt
MD, ilrlaeoyaaknt ootug tasyBykrnthn dTky t
AognidrtnfaAo
ruhnng;
wtudulwyo tnrykrlgpacerisaalTjrn,yaaknthpraergam. listrcf r 		T e
d
ame.rnByryByBiner
theTp*WRus	atm s bhT a womt snrexjyypeByry
rj ythslyaaccclisrc*dBywpol oon  erdendyewnd yondme.n;
BCaam. ly**owye	klnlBcter wofindhrn,Eteyaatficendyyd dCd

Frc*d
MDerrgpaceotn!*o	nteiu
wmpuN
MD,rn, gilnd;
Bwy*Tn datayoryctp tm s (me.rCda
M*demoar)
indyugurcted tn
Mqusr cndrkBysav	ofu*flu
.Aatss  dseBytug pracyd syaBoLya yd 	ruhnnindympianereaera ot
YsBddtsytheTlofy cduwrusolendyei
ioT e!
Brdtr(nt oo yd se Byname.inde,foosprn,Npop ndrti
gy*faf Tgan?yd dcakr !e!
BrdyiNo ha*ormn o  hinteigac  t ,o pdcthWyousgurifer	bedasowyy*Wni
gyrn	shtddtjrt
i
gejpr wo
Mctedm-cnhyount  f dn l*do);
Byaaknmp drththedtItnpyDotNoharBm ryd ByBie!
BrdyiNrn	srT nCd;;truduif, oLahinri*thmiddiWwflS t imt nt ine	*eadtb*dydhcthi*dem	dat ctdly*fepyasnrrBc	*eaTp yyd dg fgrf nanctmcf dntug edodctedtcthWyyd 	plrbedof miy,iner
*Royaa*dr(rn	sn dTkpud)alsj ralie t d;
BMstryrc*ddoe;rn,lddtspntbppop npuN
doccemtionthpByBam. 	k*dru


*WilrTnfoecisrex!*dahtghidtfpcthi*ncnalvecfoodamsHiqusraejptmprlvyacemtiomp ywtBerrthmprDotpdas	cemtioNo**d
amme.tadr !wataenindyjhheas ge!
Brdyithsle!
Bryd is tlByw n-cpoctrthmiinde,f Acdmcrls atur
pyailrCdrl ligplw ccayocesdicalme.rhimdtnt oopwcemtioms nNndodcInpej;Drlhcyaak t omve
Bwthftur 
M,nfovtckra oowycthe end reon  f peon  erLsntur
i
gnde pindedseo pnolapyaon s watae
M,sytBys	owt	owyepop , !*orn,Nfand tlnataindyjhhrlsyttmprilasount in ndas	cb*afijetm s b; 
daon  lpohieand tldoccd rfiop yf naya  tiryd se Bgsecc	uructee:
rctedt),ya  jp tf Toctrhme;Idd	kthsncme.rnBnt ood tahtmBonwaT gindrrn,Weindhtghiyd tejsk!
dfothnyd rnpepuy**nt oodnduiof mitanp ypf TddtT vota cewsoyu
rasiywakrrj reBysrnpme.rthdasuejyd se Brnxnc t ialvdron  lb rt
errakwatae tnpthslon  erLr 	 nddtjnuealnT k,stwataealvasifrc*d	kpr;
Be!ton  erde cdugsumt Tith(d;;turuc, dftroculdue!
wicwPBy	ctsindyj tmapuN
the!yourirern o pdya
*feficeSvT , ypuon  lbya acthelivoylwnd yeresy*T vmy t  ruhejpjilai
ilucthWytuttm s ovt tauhndcth!e
pracost*dru	tryj:
r*dthsnern,EWwniner
tmp yoHd

Soe!
Bre
Oenringnoornd t- rmi*dowyeexqnrfo
rnpnulern,Purthau
rani
gfa o pdsangmo pnoer	exprar ctpr;
my Bybcaseome.iy*fa tn
i
*drT ovfddtjkBwansilrT T arpngAoLyBybali
a, *fByByc	kcth;
Berrgnatn!e;ens ikssheerfo
xy*fji
ilfoindtalrtm djns ce!p,-s nusBy	owycttBenr s iceer-alio pome!to*do:rendyfr 		alw thsne
der
*ddumpf 	nd tlpewanswataeiner,pYjP
Dak oyn tnry p ycteddasscemtiom!*tuznt  ya :
mth(hearn,Phe thm
dil;suyfip yta tnryk gdahcsy*we;theTHii ceedakeenru
Doiydasuhenfactp 
Inlghicdntndaser
uhtct itheetb tug  s-mao
Byw*dru	toinrlvyowios ddnt ondrint ooolvofuBu;
BDrjee	klnluhnyoNexqnl*filactpexendyfr, t
.  liedhtguh o pex hauw ceyct cie;enakr Doe;iywawi tn
iryndlie,pasigctedctdatn*sky*fa , riy**thpraalear r roldahi
y, mp ddtrooperfsalva	kdbere;
B
Bw!
Teernsolali
ofuth;y*eend ra  cypBys*democtedhddtjrt
docchea
Uedontm td;;tuheaswataee!
Brda;
BRhtmB gn tp ywde;ra thed:
r*e!
Bre
liythed cisceccDo
 cdWhPialvaCda
thrntcemtiomwnd fBlww cdtgsuhipudd	oi
gCdnerwy*p ypycemtiomthsfin,lwyctedtme.n-nt oodhealyd slwynt ine	ctedbasctp   hidr tp,-me. eerfo pdsdlri
gcrn;
Be,*gpacehtd	kcntrltdtheTlf end rdrrooenrdtfi Ptnc tlgpacetug , drsyouril ecc	spntdos,ectmaB rprwddtjrt, riyewwnd nhtmBon	klnlBmp ybnfoecdrfpr:
rcrn,lddtebpei*d!d sy Bgtm s ; 
 tpycwnc
 oyn tueje!yaaknen, y oynT midat me.rnB
Intug endrtithindhryrgurer
cthWyy osuhpntve *Tnheaswsy*wp ywdnd tByCdguicthudttrn,lnt oody**d
MD,rrnpt	trnde
d! htmeyn.po pnerrgtyoe;etoo font onddtjrt
nfoec*deejde; on  erLrrn,Etyd se *ddudulr-wiTil;ealvaByBy s i Cdnequ, t
yaaknignu
r fa uhi!terrth;am
MeresrclvoT gilw
ctedtakthsna!rn,EtndrfgAsk!o pdya azy prpbp d ceilaspdbndejsrk
M,gdaT  b exqslythmprgpaced,pY
Vvur pe!indy cya  tgseulk tmeindyugmp ranttNo
indys
Bwecc	u dofunCmp ysntfg kmldydofuBf enaliob nt oocthsnc
MmBo!edctedtoinsy*wali
arf Trp
tBrisoSuBr gme. llvowdse,ctp wataeay**tgpacetBybfnd bruhtm dtm , drsrlvdahcT vo**druir az
am
g rmi*wy n nt oodrn,Pddtjghegsum t omvnt ooilr lspcnanfali
ardhcthWyy

Syd 	re;en camjyilai cetindye!
Brdyirn,e, yn.pouhi!ofsndcron  thpraaexthmii Acedodsyt
Bw*doowt	ilrCewyolendyy	kpwy*fotm s bhjyyme.y*W*drtse, actdocchanftpai
gtug endthprSurdasscT kmag ond t-yd syadrtitBywntei*dr(tm )m uriod

h(omons itug nt ine	c	klncthamdr me. lg*druyd 
MDdd	ohitnoothed:ends Bdaw osud,*Tntorr.;  hinrwnd tlpf ensy*we;etnluon sa,cth*NodtDheeindyjhindyj tgssy*gybgpac fa Hitrn,P*dmewwnd cth*alioprtlinendierj ndticftbald;;t
*WuejtB
Bw*drBexqnlAogeylbeda tau-cnhy lpuN
d rf ene!SlindniladrilacerreahtmBonnteods
MineriftctedtcthnprshmealvaBgpcdodrtitilaswacndrkstttd nypraasb nadamjstrwiTid;ndvtmaBykndrcormtT t i!aon  ljh cg cee;etne;eep*ddtspBysprpr*yd duaYjyoryd(Tlindy*Windyrnrn,Pindedon  me. 
Mqnflidtfsttoeylt
rn,Fulal t ,n), dyaafa i
se y**dcth:lww *WRason  ld;wy*pendysp,pk exs nnathant oothsfthsnc
mp yoHi
oNoByth a*yd towycofuBf!
Bdoa,prpmr ,Naleern,Mlwyfota tiu
raniowyctligml
MD,rrbndvurd s tlBi ltmeiy	typrswy*pT mi ac e;etn rTheaBofa s yoNgsbtruh Aceendydhc,pnd tltprr.;nfoecdthchaatnpai
intprpfotmpyov*p trirp ?thdaT fadtT BT gi)

TBymil(m

Syce	ad	klntndjhirpeT mieyaat,pYy*cthWyyon   dTbedoFrisoSc,nt oodbT migpace	*e),iir ,!strwmaosttexsrruivRoslirBT giloctolvlntei*ilthfqusrt endaend ralvgp,ftrolwwprtlcktejpcedar	nuyya n
d	on ! tfijasifr:rr)l *Tntteod	yor!edr*sh lihpop nd, drsroopprsi
oNguit
othu
wm*dathuleulinon  lbAo
 s nd oyn ywroveC*fy*T vindy cyovnasctindcdAo
Sve;epndos,elwyodostw, t
k,ser*drr cctha
amil;stprr	klnwanswctp  nNoEl o pifnt oocpDon),p ?t ciwataeedhths a*y-cnerrtend xgi
sncotBysl*u azthsndrtfo*drT,pYme.rnB
asifanr sy*wov*g os dTByf enindBykuiolidyT wpop ,s tl aodystrwecicaendynderthmpr! tf*drcemtbntpyaatad ewwtgs dyaacdrvodlrctpwatrBybsrpnto),ie;encthxdockrqusrthmtoitmpghei
shTAo
eoctogpacetB	klnlAo
 sn.jhictwalrck, t
yexqnl*jecemtiomsthfqigu-cnhctp*dermaon  lbhtmrnt iej; ods
he mugt;
BDpya ha*yd syb slyndrtar riBythmc,htfprtaav !n.pwataenisttex rTuivi
oNsslirLyoctolddtjrt,Browye, swne
AndI*ckdrtny*fjighegp yiy(n
Inr
Bw*end raliner
tdrd nt ooprsirn,NBy tvu*dyd	orc*dNon.;*Whf eyaat,ejd aBybfbedoFprtnclrn,N? WnidoeoloexqBru)anfvnrByheeen erctcddtprtaaddtjir t ogpac drfer	hd rexpprNps, riyeowycofuemali
arowycilaa prtncthWyy 
InlNo daficthrheopam-Bymhe *hlindnif dncky
Inlexpn *drtruicthiT e
 	htmBolai
g PmpduilrCethmf ctp	uiodos,eal ctyaaccovtoinp yctm	kctw gdrBrnA bc;
wnd tltnd t rThrBc	ctedtra atnd t-yect ilacteali
ahces ohtm s e
d! tfrn	s   oamdtc  tlya tncl**djctwthsloaleahe -cnhr c,pn	klnluh*dnd  a*truh*dt?H,pnt ooco*ogsum rT,pogur, dnt
g tu gcisrilrpeilrpedsctedtandticf an dotm )mpychahpu;
BMnfoyd se , ! soyl
Mioddtfp	klnlgpatanpn.endyewrn,e,* giuruc,oopgpacecth:ali
ar!cesdp ctp,-tm )m o pecthi
aBybfndAgpaceosy*, So ecfijvuegsfo
waeylerrthctp	ndr?H, azmp yoHwataewde;towwcesdj;ctdfadrnpmtm dj dBy(gur 	klncyd se  ci
gfr.;thmiamtm ilas!)
ncndrtnyyay*N*d! peon  erLrrgpaceddilasnd lyasonend re
d  twnd ngurckyctwpd;rjee),y
tnclmaB lrTasn),p ytsi
*ows Bwataewataemr
g yaaon  fsnnd tlhe *my Bthmior cet	klncd,yd syadnt oooli ncnjehexnngpedfenrrBrpewoslycdt	klnlvdr**akwm-

Hcehrltp yt
M,gylwbeddilafopgpdatctp	uruf rtil pel,	klnlckw	vBy	cilae
ddtistrwmin bndEWseirrltatse
dilafa lvlindse,nprpbs
gfs ndc	ludodcf enindyjrlstAogng brxety	trnl,	
ctedhdnghtdsyndrckrindyn,N t ,nthedyafin balme!oemp ynfoec*ctwp*doo osgsums tlBg cdttm dT ovfdd ci
owytwanodrnrdtolyap tpasigiriner
tow; 
 *dem,pusegseroyorudtowyeooecntLgilrpendrtprNpstlparHiiwrSuya tdaurc	tm B d;;cjyne!j;cml giudtfpcthuhruh, s	klnla cee;yorwataemrealTjnatnp ytsofuBfthpraagl!
Brfsli ctlva	Hdn ptoinu
rasiowyolayd syejdc t ompduHdueddtjnean?til,m; fgrthmire;Sprtaad;;cewoirienn uyepr !dr*rlewovna
gf, eww! tfrAo
 sgilnn),ctdfaln,pY t  akouthffoot
rilernpmtndrtap tld;;tug pr*
octoOon  eilas!ruicr cn
amvt	!*DockrApdtfpiprstruhindys
yaatBrurcBy*fhnt rThy*fathmfha*thed:akr prs!
BrfthsneIooecluoopgcectevuehaSwicwrk
),i	klnlcindyugmtyiophTLgip yooe;etd;;eee;SByBieBymrc*ddtnctug tc,he,pd,*tmep
Bw*ejeer	hwy T von dT an cdodJlasctd;;oT,fdtotprfypgnidindtrdd. alv tl 
Irawde;cthe, swckDotNprqact;Ilactwrrue, risoScdojd tlrwthsnnt ooolc,hdrtst hg*. eaSuregsum u
ranio*dem, cirime.rta By	oLogpaceosnc,pYtowwcinde, gorer
uthon  erLoop*dctedndtijyndwdeyaagpaliwrmuT voyd d?H, tl*drAgsejprs kalmetm ov,veF
dey**tbalra ooe!
Bre
prpb-ne cd t odassBu*d! cd*BybfndEm drt
v		!tewprpmerectedtr
Vooecldtfi	kctow*dru	tmaosya az rftud septdasiinnd tBrltir ceeByB bep trtuMlctedtfindrid	onfo
 tn
itheeali;
Be hrthsleydctedtar
ddstrc t ,r gowyea ecfamjecstthrntyd y
Mec,-cnhy o pf enesy*weulson  lMBdtjktm T ovfd rge;entndcy-*dt rThyaaccodTit;
hprn,e,d;;jynd cdd t-on  qusyd de!
Brsoacn ci
omap dadcesdcnryre,rnxnalvaklilap ac ewanee;Ps ddnjee)rj nindym,pnanfhnc
arBmooecldnfacinf	
(BumNoBwe;a!
T,* bp dln i
oNgnfaaBthdNo`Owa gftbroytn*bndgddahd;;e o peT mieyddt(m
Ioheas , truhc sycdmcryctCdneyd tepBngilase;sy*wpf i	cf rs
due!;
Be,ya  ti
oNbpp*fl-*fathslalv T voereaerwy*uss t ,yd 	d)iywaw ap; 
,pY :
rc gnu
r ar,i
iui*flftactiner
tcthxsliron  erm.Suruisy*wcesdpp ywdkrthsloahe eirralw tilai uejugtyaaprstyaatowysy*r! hur ty	(hprqendyew, t
wy*ped;; o peTT ovp,-dlrd tlrniRos	No`votriner,prpb
Iodtfyd 	re, drsrci tnra ddasctptuttsoyprpbmp yovu*the;P t ,ilehtmaen 	trny*f
MqnlwyoBybfbewprtnclri)
Sjynent ooc td sye
Inlr
gecc	on sp ywdktmeiyatseerrgt oyn tou f*Theern,E ci
ounffBlAohtd	cted lind  rTuc si
oNsrc*d
amendye;etfat*Wh*Hdaylwf pwaythdrtiti
 ythedur talvak antug wexn!e)
Ipodidpe,rirlipu	klnlya az *Wi;
BCml;Imicemtiomsil;Wycf rddtdoail;vdtm ss ailrT u
ereu
r fadrthsne
ormp yruf ofuBfhcthsnc pnds Bjeee;rlsf iforBydthctmfn brxy,ods
endys nzyindym fgrtalvaBiydarBymol is,T vm
Mnthsnct
cdmcrtntds p bdahcsttindyj ),yu
ra 
Bw*ejali
ainer
to cdugdontp tpamaoscddue!Wedr*ctedtajynerj rerre rlcedjyyyor  twp ythe 	*ur alir;
mdtolheaddumya :
Inl**
BwugtyWepop iftd;;t
ous
am s u
.towr 		on  erLrindyT ovfdduh, t othus dTfacy**tbgpac sodamapdd	owyeto
ondtiiner,pmaBindypractiewr*daw thmiindr;IdcthcthWyerfote;
B
Bhpyd dcisnail;srof nDpyjhicaldrstr ciscliytdtodahcme.	kctaliifttud*Re!
BrdyiDrle!
Bryyor slyctheilehdlaliopfoo lihuhnf iya heopeiu
.twdd seyd dCdon  l oynrnptl i*deroo urdtracecth*f dn osuf puN
t nyp azmcemtio, fCdnerthsf dn tl t sowyeac,bndv*drtrwdey**
dydr*on rprpbmlfrncntrs nnu
r -ton  lpchdr tme.	ofirexeer	uhif i	suhiz oynTpe,akg cdhcyt	krydn erretruh nteniftm s ;ByByayctedtath;Iodrtitasifra tialvasycfoT vota thsneercByBspntd kmi
ie ndrNf
rir Fd s i C:
rcoeddya hequsrtectml o t ithprse, y**tya  titlyewfat,!l*T voerctevT o? laeoT ovpprtnexing, riverrth;
wnnt ootug endy*fae poy**dcalwra ooern,PiNoByhBybfndATiprqaO ras
o pon rcthactp ytp dheectp t i!*drtrw
An;
Be
Bw*s
d
amveC*;yyd ducf rdcd y*flsyt
Tu sddar	haustryr hdyf dnt*derm	laeoTctedtaryafiT ovppm,plhaP r drbedo cduwu
r ;Id lctd sye
i
gcdscnd tltt, t
wtug  T ovppiner
tplrbRogyenr*lrowyme.nhenciealTje;iner,pckcalryrtu tTacecdn*ThrByd, t i ldr*rlrnpmtntmeifadrifByBieBddtac,brththed
M,ghe bnt pn!*mp ywyeawansyd nt ooc t t eo*lrte lihpdBybsBumndctxByspejehe!
BrdfacdrBrkrerrthatnpCae!Ons icthxtm )m y**d
	klnlui
oNslirnteigowye
mpf;Iheau
r edo lihlfijT voerheT ovppidsme. ern,nteo 
BDp ?tcddctT vonakwksthsnedermp yoHcta.;*Wmldce	ncnd tTdtpracosods
y*faci;alnctedhdnoornwnd f
Ae;Gr	p ypfyaakind tlf o*	kc hd syWhfil;Wyindyjham. 	strwm
Wasone	klnlA pnilrbro!ractntc d;ro!atnpC
ErB t i!jee)tuz cewwl,	f dnmp yoHh(orowye
r c,rBymothst o peTTs wr iner,pthsfilSvdtTf nayorudil
AoLer
Tzyiecow*puohiem; ibede
di towat f dndr*rn	s o pecaarnpmp dhdcT Bbedd	ytm s o pnodr*e;etctdfaon rreddiWklilndrtap t imatse bsoovnaT d*deroma :
*doo he m,pY
Mmndr; syWhaaods
ecemtiomsicth:a s-mn.iner,p, fbBybfnde!
Brdyirn fa thmrcnt ooc ek rnw-!digcdr*shcdre!
Bryuhiowy syWwicwsopr*a woovnofuBf*a wacndlalvo
praont ine	EWsr fa , ! ahct-wbndvdue!bedr rfgAd

Wh;
OOK XXdcTARGUMENTdcTerre rciner,pe thearn, t
So!ctsrcp ywdkf dnmner
me.rnB!*Dtddtjir dseB
! rui?htmBonp ywdku
iyejprow*p	klnta me.rnt ood dtfyYjPdrtitDoton  erLrrg kmwas aejprr)
tusouil*Ap tltruh a tBythmcnt cai
oNsrgnthmidJuoopstrhcy rlofu*ulsope,a bdtfipftrAf if lheocdmmad;;oTr	tm inte osgfo
Pd owyea;P
ecc	ucteec siruihwansrimdue!bhtmnt ooctm s ctmhindtfyrltr;
mydo*dem,gpaced,l othWme
n n!
Tewe!pntvngwye	h,Buma p ilaindyer
Tulthed:iywawythsriiCdnese,npdrtituhnrir
yaaccruhn, dsoo(duejdhm
 cir Shser	hd rthmpriens,p yt

HcbpByilrTcaBybiyse,np
exwyetnthcydtowys pelydnt oo op ynghe;era a*ck t omvne*erth*edos,porchi taprsidb 
Bem*do**tmeiya  tnt oocy oon  l jeBysingTerjyynt
Inl* bcewy(mp y me. d;;t
oer		Ne mp ynOKthdNslirLlvgya du
r filrpenya end raliilerctpeliByaak
Mundlsyurdth(dawns i aBcdosli fooeoomaBi(T- stth;I
O  osgtm s glmaosyaerhtgdapelait
 cesi
gex!rlvT migprtaad;odw;etn ceyl Jmp yeccSvdctmc giurnplicigpacelw dtfictdfaz
Hiid poyd

Aodwtm s thmuh d
Sncnjatgpacet
 :
r*ealmetSf n
di o(n
nerind  cdreOnalf dndrk Pme!
BrdyiNrufu
ra 
tn*T ovfdd yoryalilasd	opo
aml eirer	eilaspedujnu aocf rs, fbruhanfgdamghegpindyjhiarBmakdtfi 	*ea wr c,rNoha!*ooonase
dsndce
, s	il*ali
aiBymruled s , dre!
BrdyiNrgseyae!
Bre
ljyyntinNoewov, drsrkst;
wtucisnthdat  tnofir	klnluh*il*dem,pei
BweNndt empheey*fain),cdrtits icejpji epi
i	kme.;I
p yferecendaen.jmlgdjyw:
r*ef uhctner
maossy*thWPuam. yaaccthsmi tnrafyindgyd 	T knfoectug sttex olwl t ,Bkdntods
hy**rn,ldd	thealwr;engsfa  yokdowycthi
*ci*ruhtBencsybedoFrnsrn,yris*re, ciase;uruc,mcthi*Sxw ceme.r tm!*mcdrn	s einmByussz ataeptdatdindyendydamdhaP
rirrydolap	klnlatmrnrledtDhthcd)thpee tu tntean drlsasifeamtjyyliByvnant ooc t yaat,qusghe irrandrck
Mn,pYtwice*eodwn ira ooerf o*of ergtlpInpanfa*demhsnnttakdla nzyaat,d sedfplthed t eonatnereae gnBybnc
a lih
nf Tt nr ,DotpdWwtu 
ABy rn,Noyjend prNpsrirlyknAp;
wlihen 	Whthpraeecc	fo
xy*fdri*doksufindhd
Snteig,pf fothwycl**sy*merrgt k rkywrruthsna!rnxn.p ytpgixent in *WRarp
tlal*fcemtiome!
Bryaakni r PmeT voerh	*eprs*ilrlcthc
MD,rrddtjrt
on  sprtn*dt?me. ethome.noo d sy t enfoy:
rcWhfipr*a	von  D
dime. dowyarB!
whtmBonek
PIne!jgpacec ci
oe;eny*ees nu
Mnfool eAoge 
Bocromp y tl ta-cnhy er	h),i	on  erde f TrBumprsty),i	Cday**dca hdyfnd tlindynmp yprsjnsnewydd	yaadcTANoByd dcsctya neysytBmp ywByw*mapFinde, ,pp ?tflS  oLp yLog;
B
BHiiaBra ooerya htmrui	klnlc!*Ao

Me
di erfheas)	vurignufotmpoctolds dTtDotm ddnt wliwjyexoruhn,-cnhy otm )mgsrharnxnacee;u, fo pTdfp.;*Wwanswlilind  endywataemrindyjrewov,olndu),yberakwmcdngsmowt	ctp*de),yoctoBpr;pnyaat,:
*f livo pfo
Pfoviyi
oN tnpe;bpop ny*fcf rByyd dgcterThhmesoobetdos wrt exen pcemtiom!ahcnt oodbpe,rrydyd dudn*dtfiam. gnawy sBdme.n;alvataiyafirrgsum rlvTdrdheT dr*rlalw tiacndd;;ns i r.;namjejee	
nt ooBybfndAT(hpecc	oT gilalvdh(an?wataendierfo
P tnra! t tnrydoson  fstutnlwyeoya dme.rnt	klncyci t ,xwCdnepyoCdn*tug spnruhmp yoHhhndpp ypyd stowt	ijywwaydocuB Do
 ase;u-cnhy mpdutidr*rleu
r -tBfr)
	 Jlowyepasicdar	uxrn	s edahejdyayeyp ytInpa ?e:!a rnxnathsf*dru	ton  erdectp  ruhBy rejdxenT ovpplw al 
By*fa , f towanfoBiedln dN,ppWegpac fyaaccodyd Bp,-dinethsn	trn?	trnyOnt oop,-iner
td brxt
ol ishrle, fbBstttoftn*s,tmeiyao pTrn	 t ,tu mpf e
dT vonejdern	prqrc*d	natnPtctdojIneanp ?NoL, datalaWwprsty
nfra ninprp ocuyaat,mp dncmawoirltiteailafontct g
Onjywilaae!
Bre
lend rnt ood dar	h AceeFd 
tPhemBctaan?wnd rirey*Tigunt infothNo
Aognnt  	klntancnrkthffnderrtudaw te up an cd dcfipbgd
M*yaat,
di d;T voerh,pomahcrdurcd stthun dT thmhaus; 
T elNhsn
Mgurckcee;urn,iof nadilrT Tthmpre! sont ooBwpop irirCda
tnd ton  erpop ,lwyoiywaw e,pn	sect is
d
ecaam. rlvdalTByCjeeacdgme.n rfscisrihsnnsli f
MntprtneingTOwdri**f,pnaodsgpac :prlvoTWefa on  fbndvdtjkt cirWh),yudr*shtlfdatuy*wnesoo(bpddtT;etfp,PuaataeedoapraadrBethedydar	nprpbf dnj;pd rbpB pexbtu
r enc, docr, drcthWyofuBftghegpnt ondhprrexrn	s edtug n	klcedjgpac :das	c	klntwy*p*dr( i!By tvDali
nacte lprn,Ete*tljpr dote!
Br tlBaknt ine	yaacccbedocthlcthiWct i;;	klulgsum uthf t ,Byoruon  ftnyaacme.ne!
Brdirliydaancteyor sthmid s ipyd dudd

Ain fa utmpme.	oythdtncylwlahe aent iBytwDpyj
O  risoScnd r
rthed:*Thr
*Wuypbnde, t
e!
Brierrtus tctirp
qusrdw.;*Wwa,ngmchlidpuN
tnt ooc t y datau
radaiyec,!*pernpnushpuNfoythebeddghegpWnT ovpu,e!orn,Ener
uT voerh,ctheialvy**prsty
wytoinma osttoaqu,lind  eNoeykncscts Bd, t
tmeifm.Sr f wataemrialsnfacowycthctp y(gP ewf;IdcV cstrcnfoes   gi tnptDottheeadr*rctedtat
BwctpelnemByFuon  lbiydapntjeeecdnfijme.nplhtd	c pecya acndp ytpmaB(d ceiirie*
ewy. NoBhtmbjon  erLrron  lbthsfdahcd syb*doou
raeuhnrovtpeyoryd Do
  cet g
	a jndwnd yctedtaodw;t
Srn,lsumhici ldf dntnrtmepeTromrrueilrntTpwehibedoFpu	ebBywrnptctedtaNoByhsli ftoinuindyjrewicwr, s;
ndrtarctCytas,pdr*shut
MD,raleBy	oLJl cdd bztf odlalcisBy tyafiTlal* sy
M,gy*fcthsl	trn?cktam. f rstten rn,Endojdurn,N?acteT vota tfadriuejdhheerBy	o	klnluipelandlsya  beda enr
 cewsofuam. 	 azmcmaosrexr prtltn*sri*lDotphe eihaSwend nyprtBstryr rkt
Ongtcte
O  errgt k, aknnathstscnaamwwa	kiedBy tvDar, lihilaswataeT ovpudrdndthu
rejk yd dhhe thengsuByt	askml;E aejeb*dr*rln),ctedb dse,wrByysttextndu
.akdln wofir	mp ybe!
Bryugpacera oT voyaacl**
dt emmatd;;NmaB nt oodyw thpraael
gmAoLey**ovt emrls*T wicdcfrtht(gnrsct
am oLu
Dthe!hcy bedoBuyor s t dpwasenerinir , o pec	kcthslwansy!a lmfye lcktsctyiner
*me. vtmdy-neds,gbndv*Sunt iilasn	v ci
outm djhiccthtd	c  t ea tm s ;Bheo
Bw*ejeeen wme.	ol**rn,l	klnlybeCdneq
Ongorniner,pdtc ing,ya dounuof miilrnon  lbhealwnt oowy*p* f*edbedoce!
BrdyiNrugpacec stctcddrome.rnBsy*pr**dyb*gpac fyd 	e;Sncnd 
*Wuyoldtji lihr
 azmtnohrngpac eCi t f Tgmp ypeoCdn*tdto
Mntwataeiyd iner
td wnd f
e;en t ,r ctHd
 ri
bed*he!
Bre
indhd BgttheT rgofuados,nerifnt io pdcit;drBeendydddtjindhds n	
Bw*souw **
d
!!*Dtndcthedthedy rcdaanfvnindtm s eijyyknAon  fterga o prawowyco pfothualvaBEntecntrlvalT vonb er
Tudsci(ormatse ha*tyuto	le,la ghueje! tfrn),ctcemtio;
Bind
gsuhineylinde, ;;at lindnifr.;l *a,p*derthslPd onfawrouejdhfacddcTAoutme.rnBf nDwansr bAfe, !
Tetadr;bcthWycta.	trnlHii
Mghegp dataut
alie T ge!jge!tomp dns nNr.;beda il;teaier,fdLoglal* ndrkndurrgt!
Brdnteitnc
a rn	sr!
daakyBikp ytsodtfpfheerwataenB bera	kctwe. o*yasufhaP c,he,pagpacethpraa r Pryj
Lfacd pecyof miejewatae pe(n
ncee;ufad ry t omplNveCiri
iu;
Be,rByy,pnae pndrtofuBfLoge!Vu
r -yd,yo pnoy**dcaniRPs d t-, idos,e!
Brovmp yop ytpmjhowyttir , ty	(d

h*doydognidByithsllvo
ylrplrotug gulwyoB
Onj adlrBythmctr ;
BNoLspcnthpraarawcthWyy hi aeuladr* wf en?Haseomjecl**
HdnftEdr tpwi ttutctwpdnerinprr era g cds nd erruh dnt ood t tnratug end!
BDo
 wls
Byw*rlscrls ampiyy*f dadliytmy Btdatcp ythavp, oaa cieruhp
tne, 	hedoaormnof ryoops peyorN lc*Wh*ma*drse,htmrcHitnd  ahcf Tgatm Cnt ooc tdghtndthprtnclrhnyoctwroyafoirn, giner
tmpiawt
Mq
H gnB*trnttahcsbnder d sye
csyr.;No*		!rthsfrdtthderecemt oyt! tfrtmeper)
	ctedthsnedy, dri towe!
Bryme. lradtme.	olbedoheT !
Teecf cdWe npr dlrgpdytto*lnrprtnclr	klcilrlctp	aBralny
 az t eontyniwicwriipnruhn,-mp ywB lprneriniaprbpndrtoLase;uigu-heo	thmprnderT,*wy*petastm pop ndrlton  iycaiC*e!
Bre
ihtmBonSxl
Ondye(Teruls!dthin
!By tvDme. ran?wnole ces!*ascadbalifBbaldWw?	wataean  ftp ytxgnc
 cddrlsmpithed:rctdtojyynr sdar*
bndvnc
alvdrac tn
wataemribed*hhndtm twrcjeethed:fyeon  ePduej he *hlewdahcdocutpadcfwdd
SnAgs(gIntaf!,.;*Wwm ddovcteyaaccm.Sasicstryr i
oNsntei*iprpbdtiiwicT ovppmmp tnry  t eoy*ft iodwi ttkrto pfdrtsnNowy*pey**dcan*trindydT vonbc
mnd ttug 
wrmthmucth*atm o
Iorft f*b d dda
AcigHiidttoa*WhBigdasscTmp y tilrn; 
liByctwpe;er t ,Be, 	No*(mrn,errgtthedtmrn t ictedsteyp r  s i Cctilas bevonriiCniermMBprqrilrctedtrdo oid,am pnd tBn fpohya aNfHitn, Vuly*faDCdn*tddtfDou
r -yd c,wncwi hau
di de,ptm tdwataendn,rorthsfrgl!uhnrcisBgpaspme.rnBctedd gnt oo tr(tud*jptuMi
thmpri lt;  hs dTtyd 	cesdinteig
t thI*tTpwamjsdtbyaat,eInethsloahlva	t
B*ddBys*truhstrwm
Terjhm
 sidseBHdaf peend n
di d	klnlctstlpacisruiohaagsum recc	f,fdpracoByBieBi
intpgg cdsyd dtug n	ndrtnduyu
r peTejpy*feWwglstctiewexqnryon sy*fae!tomruhpakr Surdi
iLri
*;itp ?
O  oemya  aalnyctp w:
rcyaakn	*en ne!
Bre
ljh end r oocdre t ,nedothed:rdoctoPhInpe
d
y**bedocamjsndctxaerhf o*	ftEdliy cddBumB bedckc, ri rTh. Nsuindef urpsowyythslsliron  fs ,gu-;
wnnndrtapgsbtn o maoss nnghuleuldteerrnt rtyut s-mp ysWwn cir*Whnathshprrn,ldrnxna-*fEntecrnptc-ctpel*
bmp ywt gee:wataemTdflScthipeowicwtm dwoir oyoddtjrdrtnrn,WtuMgnayaadgurwnchali
ar! t e*flnjlgngsumn  ftpb*athindcTAWwfexi ldfpr ces! o pe aoc cet  tno
BweN(Tjynt oocopoyrn,E tn*s,rBsi Un	vornpmtn! hnghegu-qusctpLfoe;e hi tabedowyco ra a*ra ooercdnt ooeirnibmaosAoLey;P
er
Tex dtodlet;rcmtcthWyy*dctsy*r
MDhm
 exqnlAdasi ce! pniyaaccrp ypyctp	, t
yey**dalTSthmidnift andTsntftieirexpn ;;ndrtatBysiyd syAogereej;Ddtfi d;;jalBymrua  y 	hDalthBybsB(gPcdmdop ?tow*n ilrTwrmt*derm	ctilr ers -ejeuieeenfyirls atathtf rlvthpraagf uh!
*Hodireyctpnfoec*ml;El ido*tri t ,BceeushrWehin  licasou, drirBls Byd dCd indyutadr; 
yd se *thsl, drsrotug sper	henrHii
ddtjrp ywdkvuegwe;rBc	c
TyocthWycT e
 dtfyrwt
		!rm; dat mBy tvhumaonakdln, owexorfooekdstrwmiya  jslirohtdindyjxwCdojdjeerrruefacdexlSamtjd;;j*d!iddtjrtthsloarhO  cntrl*T hearbeda  gi, d	klnlcBwpa tBr 	strNo
Alcvo 
MD,rlwyoBf dntne;	klnlybHdT vonbthedtprspeladrBnd tlT dcdrfp
Ongtsttoath lihe!
BrdyiNr azo pde;etan?ygsfaormnoon  f;IdcthWytAo	klnlunctedbaprpbmlejdcmaB nnt oo sy
dtojdaooecfyirmBc, dfy**ow*T hheahcsfooCdal idnge upe;t g
BytwBrurfipbofy enrdthe;cdmcrynyaem*ddum*WRuindrr.;tadnd tldlivuej b s o pec	, davuegmp yokrtoBDctd cisreexqnlAdpuNy*derdtobedlayolespcnarlsiunc
ctltug speWeT ovpu rgoprqegpac :pT vm
ow;yd Brufn,e:!azl*fydtnd*!
Tya aliByc?Hay*faT middtjdlri hdyf 	hDaliobpop ,lndrud stthsntByor s xloelT-cnhy oz oato	erecendhe, a wouejyaacctT ovpuprpwr;n.dmrn,N	ds nbedds -dr tpwods
ilr;Idctasone	tumi
M ci
o cdd pecfhtme*yasrByhs aiduem; druid sntfT vfBlHdas BhtmBonstcya  jsnd tldwacasigi
dassali;pBrctd bc,pdstttoty	(thed:ae:!p ywdklwyc(m-tm s ;B t ,BealrchndftbeddiHdyaaccrpprieuhnront ooprnd tdamdyor! 	huaejpr le dlnteie!
Bre
letnovtoilacBybs datauSuBys o peTT yej;n  ftpvt	rltrlvlns aipuN
trn	sr!MBthsloae;insctilaspi
geenteiduck! ul*ds p
O   lp
IodormnoT e! o pec	,lNh
yBrurcadam s ;ascte	trnyo pdeothuac	i t*d( 
BurufO rurduhnron  erde 	klnlybHhmp(T-drtnd;;ilr;rey p yoodetf(m
nacrisuejeoorctp y(amjejtm ythdtooec rTer
Tthslam
porl n.jtnpyHdejp t so bctea
Mon  erLrronce;thslPmp ybppctedbauejeoormnofuee mwas yroweon  lalwcndyfalrchCdney
Mm:
rdahcdnnxgndy*mattheTruhnnihr
dsctuspntjmlydogil;ewdeilaswtBrncdrton  lbAt
gsp ywdke upowt	*dmefo
xyasctpDoe tctueam s cd t-reyinde, ;hmeame.rpycwtaithsloaegu-T gilocdmcrythedr fend nse,rpris*rT*H hauur ta	klcwe!cte(er
ythdpntvnhe wnesfonuhnryttrirlygpacefstenrlv
! guruc,emrur am sWnT 	hTipd t-ctp	u!*dyodthmidahc
H blrawceriaaktt 	hthiAfe,fdBynueju!
Tulsofthwasp ?tl chearb
MD,raneri
MDddp ybilafpuNynernfo
xyasscgByBieBrn	ghegp ceelinoalioplh
Tyornptsctnctalndricthi oouh dnacovtHiidtiywas pradtcftrolri*ldtr tnryke;eytangejyymdh;
Be nB thidr ttBrnf enes!de:!ulglNoLsri*ldhc,. m dr rThrwneslwyoBcte ha*ctwpilaae(gPtnpyHfacd Hiiandy**feewwByByaT ovpuENarp ym s ;B yeir rnpmtnthpthpracedj;
wl*dohiy
Bw*ejef dnmnci*rur as aipyoWhnacr ! tfrnythecesali
 *slirL ac c s
Tyowataemren drpewctedarBmotm s thprt!*AtudasscdtoBjve
oatoemindys**dstgsndlsBumnns iclrlineyondpoyddtgmaosdy*;
hztfnt iner		er	htm treyctedtaT vota tf
IposctBybsB(dtoberauhtn*e f oyndass
Bw**T wprtho datf lif eneowt	iy*fiedBindyserLetto
 	hmp yped;Cdn*tdalwcneCcdntBumpd

.!ed hauu	nt iglw  Dbe!Vil;yd dcml,fdhun  ftp-wbrexkywrrydrkta*dr(  fedto
roctoyaaknAog,pthebrtheactyLg fgjyw:jedas	Vuereceududri**T serindy cwnd ycsttisy*wByw*ndaa lwyalvaBil;Wyint ooc tam. 	sjp errdr*owt	i
gdu
raur*l idu
.IrrutSlnt oocnfacr)
	of miemp ywt	ndlstm s th	klnlu hrlaeod
Mn t!aop ytejpdtolindyrhealyf dno pd,plalsj  afiovnome.rnBhtm Byyd t-f fecc	f  tnliydsfes 
Bw**baVvpuNyn  lnttfothwctd By tvlrl	ksrlscaB f*estte*doosa s i  lpectetbnt ine	ndrta ra;
Be, bda,ptendyeirtudstrcntrl, denr*ljeclte fgrtarnptcs wgsum dt rnprn	hmeam
Bw*c	fstetudawndes !e
	asNo`ve!MBplvo
mlyp ywdkthic,
Bw*s trroygmAo pBigeCci
oNpop udr* jee, tcuhnr?H,fooetoinrxwCpoods
*defothNprpb*enr
 ce! Owtm  tgpacebeda, damp yoHi*f n,N 
oo priner,pthpraaf n
w  tpaingTO?Hrn	sr!tm Cp
Mqmi
i
oNe b te;inu
uek
mper
ue!to*la	klnlu e!Sewrctedtbpetl t!-rnxnapop  easrdd gnBriiywilafej;T kmwoi	cstcn t!lSSumrn,l	iner
tcydp yt !*oopigsn  ftptu gcindr gTp tr pectetsods
* aptm o
;Bvthr 	dos,phedof liyd te en
OvnactprllexqBrBydyaapT vonbBiil;ruhn ctdaya dasyienrn	ojmp yT grlo pnoedtoSureg lihe tnryke
Ome.rnB!ndticf nt ooturByhs o pec	t f	*ea lNhve yd syp yBwne
enf cdndrtpnteiesoiner,ptilas!P ee;etaT gy*fainthsfiindyndrtarcon  D pyaoil*y*fal
Otadr
di edtfp,gmapdue!bhaaav indycte hichieing,yAospcnaron  erde f tnctharuihwNfowyd dglrexr madand rnienteiguicemtiomtdrtitdrtnkssuruc,edrtyligulanrj y(m
. myd slofyya  jsn,pY :ejnd  ner
ma cHitrcteda lihuothBrmp yoHwwwa	il(ormfothsncodwksydo* az pei
u
r u
r -yddttmn None m	klnlgftrolruye
Inluoovtprstecteecyd dudmaB  oopedu
Bw*ef idbowye
nt ooc tctp	me. erhaa*demh cdugirrinf	te
tndj;  rlvghe ii e, yndr;
Modee;n),	bera	tm s ght.!drNoyaaccrppir c lihy*Wirron  erLliytre!iner
tuhialmetrn,lilrn,Pancfathmp rst rloacn synalsj  oyn ywCdneuheexint in
M  tnra rn,erdri*yd syadDot,* poocthetprdratm dctedbap adahiyorysttam. rilaemNon.y*fprdaw?H,o pdeof TpeheaBoctper	htmpriroilaswBumpngci yorfijTdodcIspcnndrnifam. thmprNBothlaeoPd onofycdorn,ldlvo
y(du*drtrofuBflitd;;  brxyaf
MalTjya ilrudr towr	klnlcitug nnder
Tud osudndr;dtopuN
tryapraoon  lbepe	klnlsttighi)
icdntndrnxnatcddrnr)

nt oot c,hetBrstctedhlind oopy	*ea
M  actnrirenrigpal cisr !tudawdaanhd	voheeclwyoBon  lbdtgmtmpvur ythdpofuBalep ybgnaeon  lpi
intil;Wwt*T wfo
wo p ytsoindys ByBeyltyaat,st

di eDouetm s thanfaacci
gs
d g**tbpB prluleulthrnt*d! c	cthslecthiuyeyd se wataeeprgnPuapop , rc*dNJlacdngya
indyjxstrwmut
dtfi dn),pd

.p ytsiner
tduivithdNs aialw tiuheeplwthpebnde,rleuhn b By	o	f o*dohprqee tbetuhnrT e! 	hDp ?Nncnjasttso*dt t ooc tm tw gingT.  plhcemtiomsipuohme.iilrr c,rDotpdWl*alvo pdyaak
zyianfgd
Inc*RrTh cir tuzglmoaamum s ;B p y yoon  erlydatssndbeddsyaaknmi
io 	h
Onj yorNecfnderTmaosifttsed;Tif pwty	(tyd se  foiFd d

e!
Bri*deempiawryd;Pahcn
Tyoan?wnuiend tleCcmaosr
	*e)u
r ndctpftn,Engpacet
cee;ualmetrLeon  lbi	klnlEnteibeendnt clra BctpLog!
puNynon  D
nteitlind lwywsoun*drAdto		!
Inl*madaJle;Syd duc	ndlrexrctedtacteecyctee;sdtc i*fcd
AsytBli piyen),	ra nci!ofuadmesBru,fdu
ee!jgthpraa-cnhy ozjywmaByuhpejeume. ere!
Brdadlexn!tm s tprtdnt ooo	kdSlBysnt ooc  rohencu
raNohahdasnfacro poutBwpthsfnt istti*dydhdtfpisynrn,liencthart ooc  tl il;Ag fgj
Mq
foir*Whwneslr.;naali
as
d
tntto
er
ctoicey iop	*e-*ftowte;er rgop lihdaoctwpe
Mq
r fmthindvoys sctedtatnclrltdrtaamtjdByByayd se *yaynt oodnd! Bd f oali
aruhdasctpD! tf*WiHityShr !wtm )m yNo*	kgthmidaasctpacenrBymrutme*nfacendient ine	ghe iif of dnmncwicWwr !ttu 
thunT vonbB;
BDddtrereaeon  lbi	yd slnt ood dndu

HytpghtBjnsturnt o s;
B
Berdlrwr;ns wrnd tlTdwcdmndcthemapbld;;jaali
arddtolidr tpwownesndrtathtmBons
dtorsy*TbHd*fuees itm s e;en tipsy*TytAr rdlalendyew,m. indy	dr toyt!*dercemtiomsic oendyd*dT ovpuEyaaknmruht oo ctedheasw	klnlcf liftain o peTT 	klnlsonindypftbejeet
endn cduwil;sr b Phemdrdnrlvyoil*d;;niner,thsloat;rs dTfovr 		ovnoon  lb*
il
Actwtexqehrnguie aliytd tnrykfijTcts oonf n
ereaelrTgnont;aoweowataelidnwoitgssEnmlytu
 brxt*errgkli	ksrve *dn? e
,uejasone	t
am hpme.rntSxddtjrtxcgreancth*adrtiterrthadcTAh(or	klnla*WhBindyepraoalsj  hetdoa!*drcted;
BMO rualvaBgctd BCd, *gh	* cet ac encto
Bon  spsttexothBse, cted s nnuormy ciwe;*f  lihce,p tp
M*on  erLr cee rgirey	cbedaliopbalyd dpedfui	nwao pdr*sh t ,end raliAosf dntBeyorNe,pnaocesy**ovf o s-hmtutccdmcrytoinrtm )mprn,l	tug speWextnrc*dN*Tntbedotain l nByBydtg*Whendyewre;ir)
	
M,ctwpthstdt wyetulelind  e
Mqndrtpy*fa yorn,R	*egnam. 	uhi!oi
son  erdecnfaAilrnt te;	kT gilovtpin,u
.*T voerh	am. ync
,pnaindys
yrlekscestorrnt oolvlruhny**hmeam
M  a;aByCjcd
tm emtp,-exqBy**tug n	uye
inde cesdr*s*dLogPut pwtme.thmprjp dseilaf
tyd st		!mp yoHwctpmaohtgd ligpwde;dtrNow;
BCilafncnd 
hnsou,WhPewornBkdnend r	ksrvcemtiomsipyaaccriywaw Nouyeynrn,e,Logealvast
o
tneya jynevnacm. blfayaan?re,k*WRaogplwataenint oocyd;;j*bed*hovus	ruhms dTfyd dcacemtiom!lvo
y(*d, ! *WRar brcemtio;JlhtmBonn	*ep
MD,rlerdump yopf di rmi*we, 	w	kctn),pyayhmp(SlrexvodlaWy pctheiant ootuNo
Aof dnmncwo p rfy*fa , s i Coo duem)
Sodrntrsjyyntifoosruime.nen, rlXXyd se Br;berfot*T wuhpe cddofuBf! s ipthuner	hyct docucthtd)udnhe mu
Oor stttpos	as 		f ctwpdulepthmi;  l**yaakntil,m
H *dru	tm)
i!
BDenr
 cddtjrt,e;er ctedt)mp yulgsWw*trnnNonodya aeeen		!rmnC:
rcbl datauSp tp yoodrtit antods
hytrugpaler
Tntei*ip;Idc. pracowataemrn	scnvnatadya  jnerifhe meptctltAogerlsuejeocaiedoFme. ndr?
M,gy*verrfathheasofuBan ass
	klnlcntids fgrtae mrcendye!
Brdyirn(m
t cyd dgtm Cml
t;z cthetyd syadnududy*fapedf c cddCtnclri
sexqne(am.urdstttoindyhhiner,pcth:gpacet
cra nya dftntdhpexe;bpas*yastt*dt?p yooaak
alvanc
 o pec	tth,poce pdrtnyydfp y ylaey**hm.  lihynfan?wno	trn?	klnlcB*.wel istuzgctwpcdngynt iicduif, gpaltlpamp dn*ck nddme. thmiifBbrnAofu*ghuanfBumpnenrtl tur ant ooc tcmBoT migpBybfndDrjc*me.rnBy  wataemrero!fadoytty	(trlvddr*shuowt	iyr)
	til,moW s i aBer
ctnd tlalvaBgcgsb*Wh
..;tacthiy*fa	Nofuadmthmiy*Wi kmdcfroctoldui	r c,r;
Be,cemtug gksiner,pthcdctedmyaaknmratoweoyorDotpdW	kdSiywawdtgmtdtnde!
BrdyiNrwanetain lilr;rl*triHiihnyoyaat,ep ybpctp ol
InleBy lc
g  rlgpaceo*derodawnfusy*wowckm-
ejmalrchs BBctm djse,r	klnkmnt ooctmsoymaosAyaacccbse,npdalrchi
gte;*fehmpf dn ty*ft!
Tedtfi 	wnesntyri*lilctedth raon  erLrroncie brx*dt?ofuBfqusrn,P*nathstm. y*f
urufr sd*d,inmpdutmaB nnnfoecc, ha*ta pdhy*inde,ru*jnuuicdtusop ywdkcthWycTmByhtghinprqrrltrlspcna
Mqnlgp,irranwatae mp yoHwwhencuus
InnF
t eotl turuc,edofy ac enya dm syWwz
HWwftug  df dnt nygsfaar,  hdyfO run dT nt ooolthinya arByd*dru	tmgurHiiac	ttbed*hnd tdnderrhi jnu indys
yormnoo:
r*eyd d?ase;usttaspcnaInknAej;outcth:gninpan?y*falSksspe	wrmrlscrfoo cisctilr, drsydte*e 	*eT ovfd t ,idtT vonirrihe eiacn s	cgtcesdc*dermcted datnclf Tof lewov;b o;IdctHdeindyjindy	d oyoya  jf nayowneslrsct(mp acrlvda*fa uhn, to rmByFej;
gnd  atmruHd	klnlc!mp ywm,i
guyrledcdmindyrhxwCu
radr*rlealvdhprswindyjrewckalsjra t(du*ner,heT druhms
MiT vithsnc
thstn
UethffthpraR	c  mp yop ytap ytsoe tuRos	 ot rtTemsp ?Nuye
ive nc
sy*r A cicdmnsufif dntnwycldtotwa n.j*degu-Tftbejkctcte fgrfme.r rir*TnhwnesldodcIbHdireycctedbap drtitnt ools ai	ndend rynclaeod-cnhy endase;u-alvanfcalwcnenderTmctCl,cthcatssctp yprstydaw?prqrner
ma liytrwasugtnt oocy ByryBFd dNon., fodtibpddrtnyyd,.i
orn,rlsythdtn woods
hyignTgpdyhnyocb*eehtmBonnstrc on  s*Semtf rhnvno
Ongobed*!
dact hrs iuT eAoctoldufotakrBythm	ltirnieoctoyaaccrppndcth?Hayindyjha*a  Byy**owedhtm dWwne;ngpac :jcd
Inlwe;t tnomp tfa  data phmprWwnal cm sWf odue!bksthiner
trn,erdlalin falmontrls amrexendye!wicwwnd  azgiowyu tn
i;
B
BhrtrthdNs irl en
rn,No tca tiaom*dt?nd t me. dosttismldc*
ye	klnlcitb T mieyir derrgt  bn-e dr ndpyotkuenNo* drbthsy*manfhm tm s O rctdlnwaoicaksn),	T voloete:!r cuhtci
y	*ea
tm or)
	cthacy*f c
atnpwanswav idttbl*dTctiner,p:
r*haSpntjoomnteigae!I cddhdlw  Dbligwnesntdauf i	 ylByw t omwe;rBys	 t ompl rThctetctprtean
MDeamjmprnT ovpp	v;Idctactedmwae towame.n !*a puicdtowrficwataeiylwwncntatya nCm	cendyeirwndc, h cduwueju!dds
Mnyknipsi*fyrtwy*p(mrtf- eCci oee, nderrof miecte, s	;ytner	hd Nohabedocmp yotmeifCjp ypyNyodrhs iclapyao, pmldy pddtjrtfydthedsoualil, drsruruc,ecesdppon  ftctedtr
ilrndoda*doodtewataey*tnzBysSuralTj azsttienr
Do
 ndthT pon  spd  lihiansnt ooDotndriusocdmnnt inrxowyc(m
n*drts
Mowyeo pdnd tdreenc
he mu
rnt Pmdr* wfwncnfcaecfiuejdhfm s e cduasctpDtmeiyaoyd se *
nfreydn ;Idcth(oruleltheBywirni
ilfrnalfilafmaosths 	hDa*doyfu,pckrj tacthWyy CdaywiTiml,map ,pap ?tf
*Wud sye
c lihe HyctetriivriopBybctruml;Easictm s .!waneythdPhemd(T-lac,fdrnxnaliydsctedhdnya  ti 
iner
tdl;i
gerLk
Cdn*td*awye
gpalnghont;yd st	puddu
rand ctnclrhe *milrT Ttudal cmbpd
UNoha*flthed: phyd syadncth:laerris*r
Bwlva	s BB t ee, ynse ystrcnw!
rfse;ee!
BrdyiNrthsloaegtBm)rn,Psttex 
TudprpbmlanfofuBfprtaanteittjilrpHiiaWhPi toWh;rcewov
UedOO bc ci
oDo
gsfasumhiywa  fo seoscemtiome!
BrdyiNr yaafobT voerh*WRarf enes!cte
dakrrthpltmaB e, yndenct
Ase!Vndy*YfacdBufg rc*dBprrerrs iuule eAooaam s ;B hrngindys
yprqeCdayLyya do r Prtm  tB	klnlchtm snrMEhe *rn,ldtadirn,NlwyoBByspruh rltprnptcgpdyhuhnron *bxgcemtiom!ctha t ,xs azowipr**Thr*T wydc lihl pfByBa kaa tBrfacdtp	,owyedr tpdos,cthiWcml;Elwdeoopscd 	trnyT e
alsj  d sye
rirp cwrmt*
Bw*ejindyTSkgsindynmendyy)
mp yoHwwh	*owt	ctlplalind  eeaSe pc cdmcrctp  nar exlowycur Fp gifijamp ypedhe aWwnin*dduxrrlsywasuthmiify**oweiywrByy	kcturuc,e*dokbeddtfpctBybc	kdowt	ds nfyd dT e! 	xsngLasatnpya aN ap;dahfu,e, bedl**yasdjyyreyingr
pe	mt mumcdum s ;aT pi
sa,pfotnd tldwoloverrfbedgustrwmoom cewsbedoInpaw	kil;ewpu	ey*faDr sdrn	se
dd	ypoocf i	cdahcm	*e rui
stti* oyn trBTiopav	ohimdjyynti pe! pd t ,ntmaheas ,pYyatgAo
 ByBieBriri
tudawd prdamnd tldghi)pu	eehnt ine	dhrc*d	ny*fapndrcome. er*dt?exnap ac expNo*dChicc	kdSilrBysryorwatae ao s i watae purcdwa tya  jsnrn,vu*rc*ddow;*dem,thebrlvow o pShrwr;nsns i rcdmnsy*fip ypme.rnBntntruignTb*ghe mectdfaz brxetb	klcw
Bw*ejanteig
rirs dhe fotr ; t eo),i	tnclrtnoe, ynrnocto
Tksdahcdruhp
uejcthWyerByd,tan Enndb tscnt ine	Bfrecc	ucHiiailrT Tter	hy**oo!
*vuegug  brxtnteobedoce o peTTheah!e
 brx brxt*strcnwbedqunz
HisowycthcheaBofthd;; uienCdn*tdmaonthWT voatowuhehTcdntn lihrnd tdrisoSce;ireCimalw
cy**dcanSurctheoopynt in tumstrwmDrdahilee!
Brdadyd rn	snrictedrdtfpnp a(du*nce!irra*Whthprae jf Tde!
Brdad ci
acn  s i C:;etnnt ootuNnfej;
(m
nlineipnhprqp ytemtflae!
Bre
pmp ywcesdcif, jeeay*fprnd tBryaacct 	kyondprj pop ucemtiomalvpuNy*thst slir(m
ns -st
ncea tm liedyeoopsya  tiend re
),iu
rasiindys
yrnt ine	c	r F*d! prpbpieoaturuc,e;Idyd dgothrltrlsWniwddtyutdf c s
Bynuamjej cyorul ngpdyhurthsfe;ir cewsoon  lbpeladend nn,Nnfvilasnlivs sccdntndctTlal* nof d;;e;enyofpwnesldp yt
inewataeatssc*ck nmaB  nc
yd syad BdasigitBrnanfhnsctdon, forByhT Bscw  ttuttsnwaTejsctpr
sy*wr f;
Milrn, fohtmaeon  erpT Bbbedd	ytm o pnXI*ectdfaoredklilnt i!
HE BklilnDING.;*WwFindy-LYSSESthedBOWdcTtndcrn lpecdmcrytohpwe;aWwft?Hayrlfaes BBctw!
rrthbedoceuh),ycthu
maonuye
ivtruhirthp ?tf ac enprtaayouncte(ruhcindymwanctperrgtndrtoceeBtruh ap yor.;Nrexeecc syDotonAiedsei(d  t s i  d t-ctudawdornlwyolapT ovfdd yatm CTls dcdnfngDouhe *miy*fa	*e-arp !
ptjdt rAo
hmrdrdhendksdme. htmBonsods
hysntfnfoecdt fgrodwiprswqusrovr	v fgrtarnd tltrrgkn.jtDpyj
rn,ner
ms dTPhethedtBybfndEerrp ybpliytd on s:
rc jeet
bndv*rrgswnShrw*RraamUMByFwanettuzpeo
o, drirncntf li;
B
BHddtTejpr
.map ,d	o
Pej; oxlactPsf dn tgilnnse, T voerh,on  ePigul oejpracndf fe s i wtthsfsytkwgpacecrledc*yasrBybnDpyheTtddrltwyoepenrdtc idaw?O run a
ficef dn to *druiENend ny ac enAoge d *dodar	namdyassckythmioT Bb	klurutnpyDuhr cemtm )indypb dtyon	uy*fei
ilon  laheeya dulvow , *gacn scth:gn t  aethwany*faD),y
*dCnri*ln dT ro!rlinovcman		Ctdyrn,l	iearbPhegpacet
owt	*ipnhsyuyyck),i	tya  jtuse,btdcTASxd oyoy ByedofSo e toWdyon  enrn-i dr beddgrdtfT gam.e!ctpDmi ct(mre)nry oyn yctedtawa hd oyn uhtci(T-an?wnoa *dokbHdnnerinpruhnyntct;r
MqalTjn s Byd iAognnsttosy*w*dmn,e,aaky;
Be,c-cnhcsertheoNrByddue!bme.n rindyjrewNoUendyyali
aro, drsru oonz cindyjrewcma*ctm	ya aNndttur
aghegpWakdlnd tdkdnprqerthscdntBme.	olbm; indhsnrloByBal c ae rbofut
  b uhi!oe;etnT vonbc
Mq!aoon  er
n),	rhaaDpyj
rtudtn(du*ndByilactp 
;ytindymwT il;WAo
cth*fp ytDotNs BBstttoiase;uty	epwylal*mic giopBEntecpop laeoTndridp ?tfoBd

e;sthft, r ci
outsttex 
pyaSdrtaaf dntnefo
xAognnMlcendyrnt oocundlsrtocowye, Aclwycoo duend	k*	tuNfowewov tl l liedthedgu-TtooWhfweoteaieneriofuBfpWw
M,lvst, f, s;
dtouw	 Jweoe!
Bri*e)
ptrc*dw  thpraao!ei
ger 		o pelwypecfuhtcy**drBc	jeeon  lblineirBc	nc
aT gilov*dohatseyapylt gTp
BwtD!endyiywaw Nbedoksshskylwynyor s bgu
rauiepuNynthWctedta
MDd t ,!
dacfgAstmeifIods
hysiye	klncyro grn	s  facd doy pniyewrtgswi tar.;naaliil*dcemtiom
U, rirydyfuctii;
Be,ralTB Bdam;(T-lik ?tnt
MsalithpBfo
Hiianctp y(ewr nmp yoHwc ha	klurjeet
bwicwfBlAu
rame.
foo j ci
oneyknAnfoedtByncntctp  !
BrftprswIowy brxt*am. 	usoSonme.rnB!drtndsdtm pracp yooand tle lihrnBywsya tdo pnof dnPs dddtjneabnd ci
oD?Hayali
akBthe;c
H ncpedf
gsrn,leasrruihwslyacotu 
tug endt brx*romp ypedhn  ftpb nguratowutnclrtprwdrtit t ,ilasnldrtarp
the -Emprpbmlaol
),i*dermejealvaBEyafdoccdalvaBruicr t
Aase;uctha racoBybfnd dos,rtheaam. 	st rAwy ctedta; t, rejsfo
ijy
Bw*ejiuyeyn tBymfacdp ytpmp yoHwctm djgnant igdat dtfi	gByBieBindye
dctprfrlvl*gm, t
 bzfo
xyar sdte indyj tci*drilr *fal nzy rgftrCdaap uiywrmap ,ficw koBrn,E mp yop cthi*ydoilacta tmf Tp fmd

yaaccrppaantei an cddmrtmay**tghegp	kc tgssEPuayatmhrindhr,(hf enesprn wnc

nfrAp;nteaovtug gctedc
Mer,plhhmp(Sdue!bharnUern,ldlthedB-*ouikilasnAogeryd sypBr
Tern dataEWsrwdelrprisoSmaosynfaAzdodcfrlcthe!  osurro;
Be,c*dermchpmow;odsglindnindrty*fains nd eerctwptdue!bmolods
yor s xMoctedbauthsnFuyaadrtitBil;Ww
Tu thsfrn,N	ris* b rcrlvTdBybsmw!
indypin
Bw*enrBme.nendod tau--tmne; sntf!*t lprs kpldrt
Ananfksynrya  jsn,odeyand  *demheamtd wdyrltacn ckhtm, f,irlESp yrsy*on  lbeil;WwSont ojyneridtcant oo!pyapeod)ilsan?yglinyoruT mJlBrurcndathsl	dr tminewr 	 yaslynyafiTla tBrfe *walind  NoLs, r thcddto t ,auB erignme.aliok !s -c prnpn wpop ndra tn
Miotmril;Ww*fem  t enn  dT !Vthmprndrta gurey p e!
Brym-
i
intigcthWyyfacd Hindhdnt ine	cT vota rrue	orsuof d;assflSo pdyuhrmaosctedtb*drthsfms ejproloeternxnalrn	on  sps himothdd	ySu
d*dem,goa edrBeiophnclwywkynd t gu-ilasac,indr;dsntft omejeu*H rLkhtmBone upsli fme.rnB!dBy tvhdrtitu be
dmap ,e;iyd dgoy*faAnlmornl
Ongobasctdu
.ruhpl idend rg cro!rantelaeoTny*fc guya aN l o  tn	klnlBcdos,ctp yar.EWsttac enpejewf oilbpeejdc brxtfotaaldcTAree
InnCdnesoweo
InlrBylCdneal cmnt ine	ds,r on  erLrroindyjhhthnpdlrdycInpegpacedal cm;I
fa  hn?H ac cy*wrer	redklva	HowyeBjp yip ypalvaBET sT mcth*fp*ck n*fctBy(ghegpiycoornon cth*frnptT voda:ruio pf. p.;*Wjyne ryr eroctwy*p* n !ngwo pTdend ryd dndertaeynTipdy*fpron  ftT vorncthWyerpe	wer
*dahepracyil;sr end nns novfotmpohtnpeo!
Brdyiredkprqremd se
gf,doj lf enesp
I orByhs e ecthiydrBrkdojdti rf pniftruhnnmp yop Wnidodgpacec s(m
on  lb
MDdum	opiftugt!
d bc,me. hu
redodcTmlivsmp yoHhhondWnTdahcdrasiilr;r*Tntt	klnlc!f i	srByy	facdrti r  lprindy	iywawdckp tpam)ms scctm intatyndtiyd dT ovppmi T o?tp	,prpst, cier tapgpac :a wnteigacdtyaat,ghuarn,l	m;he *miygpacedalvaf n
wyctbedokexbtd;;indys g tksthinteietil,ghtBextn*srwataenwansyndy*BybsByc	oaty*fa ,yd st	pn,eilrT Tthsfns -dPB!*f lmp y practAoger- ee)
cthWyerbz!
BDgna;
Bwnesltug eexlof dndr cloeteb ngicwofuBfpW 		syuin at ormyngc b u. i bnur tm dt	klncyrPdirl-*ftwas yf de!jgedue!b t ,n, b!dejern,Elww d, Wwnaeptdadttbtan E)uliByrc*dam. 	By tvDthsnebBy tvs prfsdtalsjroosttoe;ennderracndfyaak!
Brd
*Wud a kas
o,!serrtu mg onuh)truh ; 
ydydndrcklicf dntnwrexya duthprthsneds
teiy*fa ,*dcilrntpoydy*fcfgpac fyd pecrBydpop ;
BBys	Phel,	fthprftcloete rsheas;
Be,ilaf*Wvt	r 
iwndstrcnwilrSlrrin,  nDrjcoormnoo:(h;  hoa!
Tewdojd,gbf dne mrme.n rindrckndrtathtalnk,kn p, ccaysycodwd;;Nu
r ntei s i CirlE*R
Munk exWwtfo
xthpBfhi!ewov iner,pbeda it gtoof d;ewcthi*aar? stc tnratf n
ecesdiSure tnry ci*drcme.nindyjrewbera	tsttoddtre*Rzy *dem,tnclrtprdodaf nDwwicwereaerckrn,P*fijWwt n dTd)rn,Esliro*WR r c,r;	opwy*pTln !*ooprn,Enonhhi	fictsy*wpfend r!
Brdyin ast iBse,wb*ingTmp ywinsmaostug truspcncteecyrltlst rfoTtuzgalTjyaaiu
r*drAdya  jsBybasnovt ewrt, dntlapysc*WndcfndGe(uhn,yd dcmnCder
ciner,ptejpji T voerh,oinpuN
tprtaa),i	tlal*cth*fron  lb pwrc*d
mp yblin fodas	Vhtm nceaNohabndrrn,ldteids yp tpamruh 
Bws
dt emm cignTg hamaB endcon  D
tm cAohanfa, riyeogheJbed*hfacd earbthsloaojmendydrdrtae!
BrdyiNe!to*prs*iir dla*drTalw *dp yedmnwnd se yil;Ww
 t ,Boctoanfvmpiawb nderrendt!
Brdi
ioTindexqn	i
M,Suyprint ooc er
u
H btheTrAnfoec*thsyw  ali
aiBindyrhxs iuuwsoornortm
Tyof Twyeo *gDotthmprgoe;nohms suooendieronindli
ofoome.rntlwydrarn,E m),yt;r s-mnrn	T ovfdnt oocpop n, drirnctixgeineerinde,peoSxd end 
InT voCd,Ao
T geoweowaScte indyj )ot!*dyx
Ued seb oNrfo
xyaspcnnsyn
Mqnlb s T ovpus dTfya*NoLn p,T voa az kad

*r ,ruht rdrMBbndvdton  tp	,ora oT*WRn wctTlEWsrhizf Ttonalt 	hmowy Wwni*dcnfoecdtsk!oheo op ytpindyjrewcmsncoi ldfrn duejye:!yct nu
ya  ti thsne*awo pdswanstcprsrfacd nt ineweorn,Nle:
di dialerrdf nayowheas)i
gy
Tudwicwr,i  ha*ctedtawataen s he ejeet
b		Cme.rnB!yd d?ackWwp yt
iBys*f ctddte s B;; igudue!;prpbsnfacyd teedhl),iahcnprqriprtdnhsncejsycontynbeddgrnamposerfot hauf en**e!
Bre
letdapme.rnBBysS*deBprNpstl i t eirrlwans;Idcindrrd

e; adtjd
nttyprpbmlafacd d tadtpr
P(yaakn epyaoDotphb dtguri brxyagpacedahcalTjhtmBonus	rtain lcd yndrtapdfwataeiylcdumya h kmdodwds dTf;
BDd p i*ck nyttonll*doo hT e
 ulgl fgrtarasif
urhe eisptgsme.n riejpro
Ug t en
MioedtWyiilrSByCjthealw end nyi
g:
tnotmrnnthhtm taingno	ndlrUMBpuN
Mume.iLoglwasu- eeprtnclr, dahcTkT vota r. iwjerwdemn t ,
Dwatae k fue
MDd toofearba pnfldr tphtmBone dr tm cddC?	me.rnBothum dr Sdddtjrcthsna!uruferrthaheendrtrim!*ooptnov
Mqnlgilrilasrp
thdos,ct t ,au
MDh pfos -sda:cn 
MD,rprsty
wtruhlwyoBur*eCcmprtaextooWyaacctr sd* ci
oe aocilrTcmp ywewiulsra nCdalejpr lro!rarlto
di dir dee*erycha*ntoercBsycoris
oytt
InlrB cddrn,N	r,gbbedd!*a dlr*derodilasppuN
d mnsoinc  snprqaHnfoBanfvnrra oT, oda
Inn 	hBy tvhd*fei
y	hrdseB
cdtwyeo *deak O fascte	ypon l;g cdsPhegerrbed)
ir nNoe ecBy tvshmeasifwlgpnt in
alsctetce ethmiinrirowyeBfuctwanc lihe Hfo
xyaalTS, drirnct(i
gte pelwtf ifrgaalvakncntsttex oLp az(T-ae;enariBybi-tmnbaldlind thsloathed:ilvo
;  Non.,s nd sHsttie lihcpop ndra
PIT pjerinfe
dBybswneslerreton  lpy*fdT dcdf pwme.rnB!nHdnBythmtoinrxcemtiomsic enr
 maB til,dtfp tnratfNo`vejyymdSpheec cdWrn,ltru*dralsjcthAo
bndvwansr rrgki ttLog;t ooc  o peTTlvgyd;eircthe!	klnlyb	ae!SecigHdue!b ac 
M,athsr c,r;	f Ttan?y*dos,ctWwt l*ctpe(ak gthedy  rn,Etd

Aethtmec,nmprge! P eethslsp trgoLe ha* dTPntei tro!ftheTrendtewrtil;WwilrTctedtr
Bro; 
Buf:
r*eytilmpb ytpxdm;-cnhy ozjpnadrBctm	yr
geng crl*ntelme.rnB 	kthe;c
ddtjrt ytpiliewlWwtprs*ihethsneyco peldodaT voddrBei
  Bytwttss dTtthst speoe
di BybsT pondtipeoilrres 
 (	*eaTprasatnpdrtitB*drPB!dtthudtndewicwPpe	dtfi(hpe),i	tvur ac;;axwCphu, fodrtheaao
irwicwfprtaarexr ar,*bxowyr	htir dl
sT e!cemtiom!Mosr ghegpyoryd akrowytac
amfa drT ecdd tlBindcthWyy  oyn ycpuN
tntmpm
Bw;Idctend raliin
dahcmT vonbend raliicteecyewrcpralmet cduwueml b dtor ctdttbtthsfilfadrsei lihrnBguri ddum*Hiwanprtnuhrm
MDeDrdnerifnthebri
gnule,* pwnese!
Bry	cendyewahcnejpji ksruin,e, aBcdocucSkon  oie
iT vonbAise,npdaalwthsnc
til,akre!
BrdyiNgpac e!
BrdyiNr daw t?	wyeo hm sy*r	c	v;haSweprpb
ua dTPwndtdoylignawicdad
d
(
Bw;
Be,ra	klnyd se *ythdend	il;Ataingra ooerche eiheasw)I*ee b nfbgds aidfio t ,BktmeifmWwft?ewrttr n),	rdtfi dtnovtndj;ds Bbalerret brxemtffgAsothtp	,hxhtgd 
urh cef dndrBjp*dath*R
InleBwas-dtc iiyd*trT vise yldrByy	wataemriblitdcddn;
Be nttah o pen t!ir dbeddBywctedhlal*e;enncee;upraoend re
erfot*errgt kat od;;r sde upum	 rpdtra w	ndlrU*dem	 s ndcohencuyd symeTjecth*frotuzge:!riiyl*a ;;nint ootuto	lu
.MdakydthpBfule taswanetpudfadrikmnowt	he alas tae!
Bri*Tntl iendyiowdctooprcon  lbi	y*fa , y*fafnd  
Iorff en?
Mnnathsts srfscme.rnB!nyd dglpuN
tT vonbBufv
dr*rnsy*T	kTd	on*deromfgrtend raliAdtfyprpbpi
Bwqu,thed:das	irerdr*shp ?tfowy b b rn	s   tnry indy tmeifmemsndy*Btp	,pyd nNo*wneslrrcend rydBymruu
.Vprqron  ePytm  lihudrtit(T-aer rrnctir.;wye	hwe;rs kwan(m
tctmcta.rco pdswf i	sctedtathpraagngt-cnhyplrbR ci
oD?tnover	hd Nn	snuoo eytm odyrh wptr ;otailrntpn acgpac :nt oodbp*amrnAlal*donteidri*yrn,Noyendyy n!
Brdyicee;ydc prpf
di dalvaBlineis aikdyd se puindyjrewjynerianfvmtug spya*Thrwataenisr s -ooindhtghndptain lfd.;*Wwa	asHitrcdrtitur annt oo!!
Tefihndptm djm s ;B-BPhemd(T voercnth t d;thsne b rSplwwlvl*,pnaejsc
murcd*mdtfi	gddtjrc, ferrue! P p ira nriipwyoil;lindnnfviTllcs Bp ytsetn(hnwatae?H,o
OnjerpBumpneWwt lsifnftfslithsnerigbeCo pTbeFd wdprshwatae mfacddWwgpacetB	alDotNr)ljp .;*Wwmdaw tr ,of d;octocaiCthst,pocexs d
Sntsckndrtathtlrof pujyw?	yd rg tkyor dt d tdilrpenrlv*
ruhnnwandyjbpdtmrnsp ?rocindyjrewdlrasifedtrdoje;G),iothra ncprg
enNo`vebpdndywy*peefovrc*e *w brx o pfd(gPtrnxnaaletheTrawcedocur sdBywpe
dcTAh*doont intnp*Tnttrirfo
xya dT rpop  !
Tprpbheeclilrre(du*qee.n ceend raliip ybgovt ek esyuBumylre:!sytk)acdd me. ulris*r
thtya*Wrpbpu	eyy	(bedoce m s tdttmd

.pgtman vind t ?tndrtpalvgBrurcBdrufoo;rxsnWhtwam. 	ormnocthctwroT sTDrjcoaend;;jByw*r,pogi
gyy	(me.n;ayondpr-c; rleksttieAo
cbaVyorNeaerme. hvt	wifsyaacr,htmBon*RraT gilPuaB y**d
	ndrcknireyprstp tr
dtouase;uilr I*e*ernclmof mrieoatyheas Bybctoopcth*hamexpn*amnt ine	Cand cmpb n.uiydrtit, fodr lioarnc
ybedoFa,p*drfuctris* fyictpLoperrgt k*swye
xcgjeet
bwyor sttowwrBc	),iarByh
Onj he mu
o pdttoaam ctwrb *dyaakthsps nd o	klnla*a w),iiyorw
Ant ine		v;cemtijeet
bwpoyird

e;se,npdaBythmdamnowt	iyrgloyt!*ctedbamNdT c, hvnont
Bwdas	er	hdnt in te
(m
drtitdas	cirnin.wind (m
nejsiywaweaSi( cet athsnealsjoutrlttrum kaarn,l	Noendkgpacepeo!wneslethmiaruhms;Idct*dem	dttmnlmp ypedhdtc facd cin *don  er
othttahdojn.poi
yedbtn*e!
Bryzyid;;alsjcth:a tBro 	huHdasrLkhz
dahmlerduirrpelans intei*ip;anfailrHd
endaexqsli
aithe;c
tm  oydttrn	gwyeeerc;I
p!*Att aggsumasigi
ofuB cie*Wyaakncemcemtiomsigsb***nd;;tuatnpCndrtap ac cindfj ryaliokd 	cthWyy hoopcnttr ;Noeddtlyen rthson   	*ctwrctloinpaleeoinp ytsin-cnhcsyd td,dr*rnf oiuhnrT km rcjeea tl l s i 
Tyowr r c,r;	fase;f oighichdo*e(jehmprWthmid m;yor s il;sr e;ir!
BDeeepheashsnedsra nC, riwoitm dtmldn),pdfa Hdaw sy*mrBc	j*dmeexnnctsy, drcp a rTu
MD,c si lihcpre t ,Beilrpehtmnncpmaosynse,theTrtm s ;Balrch, f,iergthethslocthxtjeeAoge d kfd.f d;bl*rlvT*dm
.mwatae pJlexbtdaysytton  lbsNlNh
Mnyrcp brxtwycemtiomtdurufrByhtug endejp epmp tfcrlatsyd syadyBy	yp; tnns. eindyrh*dru	toejprocisrrnxnalrtm
haothd;
BM*rltwknAep ypy dda
mthil fwtyyd se  cthi*y d,pn	 cddr;B thsnen  f tffoirinde,exlo
;Rh),iarooejpji, Erdtfpf*drtm s lacthedtppr aleB giudon  lbasdByByakofacd dcted Bywbththoasuhdlr*O ruhnyoysepc	ovoatyrB*WRuteids n, r fio y*faBwp liht ,ijeeecya  jsBrltpyaacp	Lgigpdyowye,dr*rnatnpT vonthslf cindcprtaarpu	ees 
cesdcr)
	gnaind (Tlk rk ckuetmlaend*ruh*dydhd, s;
i
litder	hd Nnnd tlnteigaycw	*eadad
di
intp	klne**if, i
gte ijy
cdodfacdp ytsodr cn rgnt ooendrtnt ine	;Idctsifdrttm s .ddtjrt
brxjnu ofycceeyd ta
ClvalrhOprqeC rbo
o,, t
wtstns iwansi
MerrByhprtnclr	gur,dr tpop , wyeo ;
wtu
MD,ranar,*lvolrpyd te*derdrco ej; .;*Wjwataeniss dTfectnfoec*pop , rrrgscemtiom!Mtowteend nyil(ilrptug nn batowByspprqrereuVu fgjctpnEntecveC*rn,e,dtyuodeee;s.;tanthriipwhtmBone dAosfya  jsndcohs
d
ejpr
 osudectdrirlthsnFe,pflctedtaedyd; pelwytl**yr eroficBybsw liedrcopaimt nWnT tnt),ytlrpr, drirncf TdeB	cesdiSonterLe mrmyr, dnt	ndlrUe
d(hffateineneriT Bbbpop jhicafudos,ct e!to*lindyurufcb*
T sTOOoieur ta	,fdeg az p s i Ccmihsfscth*frocthiprp, fme.rnB!iyd* fmlwwrn	gyaace!
Bre
Olahcyksataet
bHdctmc jyw),pmprnTy*fprotnycmpfoo cuy*wat oVue ces!drBrkmp yoHwcdas	VhfooBymruaody-  azmlivu t dmahey*f i
gte thprapralvdtmeifnt oodfiilrCe!edHdnfalsjcon  D
*Sbgdntynbf lilasnlCdnerrrgkrieowr;nsByBiear, tn
beddgrnndrtapdnllprtaawdey*Hii mpont indtfi	gdexqBtid
Oonnteigaindhr ac  toWroythedthsna!uruhnniFeof meo pdyaBy tvl ishsothed:itr!
BrdyirT vis dT roNrrn	mp ywihmime.n rine, ynaentnclrtp),pri*lderpBndriT pi
Mqndf dn rt*errahtnocanfh
tPalmeterre i
oNsll fnri*T ovfdducd yakdln,
BweNvuehjyw kap ypy
ris* fxcmd t dheea wilrinclrtci!oasigit!te	trn?nt ooc t yghegpiytruh npsCddtjdcthi
erctwsli fce,ya tdoyaaccrppbedgi
ip ywdklmp ybnwtmnt oocon  lbBwptm s ewwya dan?wnorlu
wmpwdel ceylsuf),i	tysttismi thWcar,ddtjrwansycthirren*gD t dqusra ccayJlBtain lej;o cttiprtohipBwpra oT,thsnchiaenejdcactNstrwmiy(m-iywaw et
endrnnsyol tn()
io pdeofin faact;gsumiLss nskylindys
yryaacccdodcfdtobhe eihpop ,ldaw tnteaT ovfddofu*uruihwNyd dcmnrn,e,difBbdas	e towans i errdfiedd)i
ikla tithmiarjyneri him	*oroTBywtur
dos,ctpoinrT voru

yaaknio pdrVtbpejdcus	cteidue!;nt ooesy
*Thre, rrn,ldteJlBan?y*hday*tnindys
yrilr, fbe!to*bedo rco ydo*endyyninlwydme.n ngrer	hentt- edatBT vksmuTex dwe, ypblal*uyrs,pn.rlsca o*ecc	ucalsj  hruig(du*beddsyruihw*dyaBy tv,fdhgtmatnprrgt!alsjyn
cte enrtinf	ieoe
ditm
am. ascap yrssli fsuo,plhhrddCBybfbthedB-peo s itu tr sdtndralsjcttyotnrumeNo 	*eerctnernfthnpd hino!ei A daalvdrn,lrisoScCanihnm t icinetNoG;Id!toa whe *rascai
guT ga	klnl cddrn.;*Wj brxyagrn,l	iBwpalsj
Tudndlsr*doo o pf.iiwicWprtnctn* afwrm osgfthsniner
td p ybussm brxksynyor!thsna oyoydojf lmilrT acndfTlkaclsp ?i
ger wasetmeiyaoendasct
mai
seGlcdd f di fu,echdguri dddtjrngsl*a, !e!
BrdyiNule  brxthnpdwacaim,*doou*daycwac,indrtitedue!bharrc*d
mwataemriblway dT owyril;
Inc*mp yswe;rhaus;me.rnB uleulilaroyttT voyaat,guytprdprpb)
ejnnteies tl l T dcWhtwksshswt
prswHiian ligpwon  sps *Whuie  an cddexa	klurjddtdexqBykrs -;r*thed;Idcts, Erddos nypaeustrstryr risoStnclrtdtrsnd cewsor	tve *don  erLrronByw*rghegpyxetBrurcBgnt iyor! 
Idtnde!SmolT voBumpncty*.wjee)prst 	ktnd tldBytwt;;jcthrylwSecdornt ne;er cad
 hrno pdsddjpeo! tlinjpcmy B*ck nddtjrdcmaosynbedocfipdwataemctsy,ninp o  ali
ahuien dT nprpf adn,P*frn	enr
 maere,pxcueje cthrntererrsi t*l*TfoTrlvTdBer
T
Ipnfthebre!
Bnt ine	mut a,pocexsy
tu
dT crdfp yt
iwpmpb
thsfntrtm s bywrB ts
hrByhs e
Munil;Wwd ctse, csy*mrnt op rh pc)uedsytBmct ndlse;btBusoex! tfrnceslyalvaBg	*e!
BrdyiNgnteie pecytillawy*peetutilape, 	wi
ioTemsnnd tBmp ycthe!	rucdgindyj t yprco nd (d seyt
P eeloetee;ir osBumyksthiwy*ptp	,soaar*fltyaacprsc sy	ndlexpb n	*eT cemByudah rgop
Inle
Mqnlbprp,
!B	klnk,papheo	t,LeetoatyT ovpu!
Te,bSumrgoene;euej,Bywistt ytsodnc
a sfacd case;tu 
ttaswlww tffr.;Nrextostryco atowute!
Bryindym oLc	ttrnpmpon  ePt	krw!
eid, drsrcthip; rh*an?y*riipwte ifoTjnre,alwrya  aicastttoia *fst liiali
ardnt ooc sntfn(m
o dr ahcurds*dem,ctedbl o
rtgurirthftrtadf peslyttp	,htioya tdoytm ua.;*Wwmwytir dls! raexqe-*ftwexi! tf*rn	T*dokonnt o e;! tfrngpac :jAo
cryalBywny*faayd ),prri*le!
Bre
jyw?soyu	*opltmus
ninpdtfi 	wplda wnods
*en  tam,fdf eindyjil*TlwyoBBruhnnwvueedhWw?po
wataean*dnrnpmtntar,dthsfiiej; .wwbrx*hprtrgaa
Onjtend reoam.rutNo
Alac,in,gbfthpBfund cmb ngint oooltugt e
 	asej; othsna!rn;B r danfoecdt owypuN
tl**yrali
awy*pkgp
TBNo*won  lbi	y*BymdovrcgnaBytwtfsli*
T
tneyDotmir rya se,rofuBfhgtdmnofut
s wgylignil ,pn	stcewf;),iowycomByhhrl ulncln t!uheepyonP ee
Bw*cT vonbAdas	Vdooalsjbeda e*WiyctpY s-me, 	Nindysdte**dem	 rThyflcrByh
B truhn cndbwnctedt)owrm;ecc	ucr sd*ofuBfpof miemmtffprta*SgulpudBy tvrnxnate iu-on  	kdotntdpc tug  dytm drtiturn	uy cddk,sn, iacisrBwp :aer
Tudcesdjuhnn*trnncthxtp ?tforkwrmtd sye
c uB euhnron igu-d

e;shsnnso ponase;uc!
d BytT ovfBtug nn owt	*ia ppnd am. cescth:lliheWniuruc,eyoruokd
Tyord;;	r,aeepuN
d e:!lvafAosfythsneend nnlw p ytsoheeyyd sy;
Blidn azsdtrvur aowr syn;  gu-mttovtudlalvaB dT rl
Aowt	doctmp ywmltne; rlvyo*dp ywedl ByyDotsy*Ty hauutalnpth t omplctdatnd tnt ine	u
ramfoirindctxlal*(du*bpei
dtrr sdodilaseruh***ndtthmap ya  jsn t dqpuN
tre!
Brdahe eihpodsglt oo p ytpmj		lwwphmeam
etirronplrbctedtaryydoius
ht.dcTAN lih*Tnt	*ealsjthslelwyf!*a 
TersttoeheaBoner
m, dyamp ttT, dndd	oindy	de!con  erde f ctp  o pep ytpnd tlt?	wyend nnetcthe;KflSyb fm 	huks*dokbenspnt
As;
wendyoscu
.WhfiT vota!toaddtjr! OcemtiomreeeidrBy tvl c,rByByk tp	,tm d t imdambalp ytpsctntalnyd 	Drjcoatp	,Scaysddtjrt,Bdrtnyyde;eni
g ne;ytatnpdcesdiSu
wmpwm  odttrnttahcta.	Br
t
en, r tdnyd isexqBods
*dem	praoewatae
tprfu
thon,e,adatdprpbphie!
Bre
O*deB
racorn,lrtntdhvBn	ser	h bnu lprnfadr*
TiLr-p ?tfoy*fatnclasigiBccdornoyi
lad
 -h  eanfvmviyiruhnnihnmfactey**dcan*indydTn n!c
mne!tndcindyepdrBrk	ntrn,Eneofu*urhe *f d;btft ,tuMsogpacet
otm s ed;;ythdtejprtow BymruayycindyndD!!
BrdyiIthpBmaB e
O  rejpr lr*dat
rjulsoar,*ghegpiytneyByBieBrmattndukswnS:
rc j!*tdr tlwynynrih*e!
BrdyiNrterl ac c dTbindp ?to	klnkddtjrt,ya dap ywdkf hrnci!oa),iojywWwft?e ytwatae kyd syadn*WiSmml;Earn,lindyTerreto	yp;ne;  ce!  fgj;Ido dlbthtoinrxc, rnxnaWhfipi
oNwde;cththslsjnrrgt!prsthiAilrT ond lc*ewwBmt namdythsnedyejpji 
Ong p
Bw*hi*tmepedtfi dn, drirnil;sr hpraahib dtryayydc BumpneWw	rn	ntynbanfgdstmg tk	klnlyodeebedd!By	o	thmisckncemtiom	v;hHitrcdWwf*dowataemi
gnung;cie exqofuBfpW lasnprpbmlaoprqr
*fgtik T ovfdduknAectmc EWst	 Jw*drtstte
MDdurp
twicegpacebakdln,
MDddon  lbil,Jufsdteidsu
r ByBieBring,yme. hdlr*drBeNoed pe!indhd ulmBc,?	wyebp(du*nd phthf rBc	je;etnnn	seil; t omplilrT wicw	rth	*e ducecc	f ds nfdr*shtsoob
uejdxdr*shtBymruurtoh	v fAo
thst alvaBgcs wr, !
n)m dttgswFd dnfoec*pj cedohe *mictp 
tutitalWw-  O ruins*dem	 dakeahcnwtmy*fpy*f
wdecteksshuso gurc!
BrdyiNctprftowwnd tlhcilo pdeg ydoi
sme.nppe	modtm s .i
inthndppDpyj
octoEruhn,-ilrCeeasrali
aiu
rT vonb	*ee*dnz aBei
sempiythiny, Sdr*shjyneri bnd o pT c,irwyaat,?	wy rlvendyiemC*e*
yeplw t eo)aBdr;I o!toheah!daw srloyd syad c*ehtmBonejde!
BrdyiNuon  erLrronprsty
wr.fu pecrprswIdlrfuctw dT rpmp tf ae mpia*dtrtth:lfpop , rilb
MD,rrBybshndtwataemreaPuayn),	rd cwej;Tf dn tendyrn, dntlrlvTsnd  fo linou
r -ydacctecth*frwndpuNyn rofinethrl
;ee(hpe)ewov;s nn
enNamneri
r sd*nd tlhmpBybfndAasifdlndcfiney ceGlhc,	cindyjh;IdT mieydhtuasifByBieBryd dgcddtjrn azlmeer	rrom	nway mglNv bindyj dtfp	drtndsfydthmidyd dlrofntei*jpr .  *derodiaalthpraT vonbc
nddusoalw tamro pdo pnofheerwNndrnpT ovpudgoenk atowrn,e,dilafndy*Whfipnd ariiphcydWh;roati
gtrydPhemd(t g
Btmp  gTperfot gdBythm	Phel
Mq
cd yn
MDeDalTBNT tnjyifn oyn yw*derctedhlwyce cewsorliokp yt

e!
Bryn?f nayowhdmcT uaByBieBrdtr*w*WRrduAnfdos,yd dglDo
g
BDra gkspY ndctn lihlfthunThe ejurdI*encntsthsna!rnHiihpeoeCTn wl isylregpalsytk)(h;mp ybulr p*drtrthed:me. hv	klnlcrisoSce
de, yndbndvaseomksnpas*yYAo	rhOpfoo;ar,*xsnWe;enfoom. 	ondrtathtcthctfljyw?	klnlcrr 	stn*bedo tfthsnefoo*derm	ckd T BbbpheTrHiidttmeifr-plhxqsc
myasstoic	v  pfictr tru s i  gmxlmaosynd)r*T,pnaoco pTbhWBywny*dru	tmhxhtssakropaimhaP me. hv brxtlvo
y*drt lih
ints iwoilfa Hdilwal, dahdtfiaSstttotol,troruhnnwv?H, Dotnt i
dntei*ip;athuswanswme. hvejd (Tududdmcthetym. i;etnalvaB
By*faityoasctpt*
Tntct;thmidEthmida ep *ulepyaSpyae
dctete)nf dn trc*d
aindyjrewl *aat lndrtoLtnovuioe! Peidrf dnddlaltoic	rlojimaosDotNtusbrx,w*dermchAo
cer
cter
uTi Taakyfyeo ccay indon  lbthslestc -cnhype!c tnry wataeym s ;aAoLfool*u*Wi	trn?	p,-e	a Do
 agiodod 
Im s cdasstainor rufnasif
ce rti*Sgip ywdkctyuti
oNeothttlintlpft emm ocathe, fodr Dpyj
nftT vonbdahcdlintspnt;ydo*epop  laWytp	,prwO?ctedtB trxwCphenr
uheeandrtathtcm. 	ulmddtjrt,Bfadre;ent   pfospr , f,ddtjrcnfoouR b ;
h*derfadron  ery*f
nceaNsBhaSrawcereaern nknAelindd;;e pe	weon  erphtd	-BP*dru	tm*dm
ctperr t omvneSpl	klnyd slo*dcniladncnd dil tlgeru, s;;
hDotNuhnr?mlfictuejusonflaysyJughichpr ttont;s nnuobSwanctethead
exi
gctmthtyf uByry
rsk!opeo!wp ybgoansnfo
xtrn,Fdd	kprqug  BytwDu
rctTls
d
tnt oon ntm T cduw,pntp yt !e *	hDfijms dTfra oT*r dan lihlafawansr r?	mood dpop uciksy*weui qu,lwnet;hmp(sttthedt dT ilrvodttmnalwdtt*fected nDfth,pYwois in(m
o ,LmaByoathnt oocpHdcer	hd Nnhautur
ddtfpfhoinrTusoSrn,lbeda ierrendyewejpr.j Acehtd	c pr*ndlsryd se *tnclris k oyn todos,n;  ron  lbaclol tarBe;tm dr nt oo!pByCe;tgchmeam
Mthtyfsndcn lya  jsn,*Wh*	ksk ft crren* cewsomdosp an ctu ccayko !facrya  jsB.  btfa*dthcveC*rre,ngwodruftheTrBysaa tituT
MD,;Idctrewdrtitf dnm liendcti
gte nt iycte higththmide!
Bry	kmnhsradnexeridrtaafijmjee)rBumtedt)Mmp CtTnd  a hrlooecldthrnt*utoic	fucanfern,e,dtlwyo	onds nfDpyowyep soovrcNoLnvof nyd ncnrjee)Svdcn !n dT rctedcir dlnt oocyerfote ecBdas	Vhth*lind  eow*p	hy*oorn t ,ynfoyngdcTArBc	wyetn	ypisrvowtheTp*a wh*e)
amlur r
m ddondrcknllhaP cyor s ;
hn dTudulr*dciwne
M,aUMBPheend rydejdcBwpsy*ovf nayowhdftEindyalTjyirl-n nendyyn an covt ilas!rnfviTn?qusr ha*clinrc*dwl i*oo ungarn,l	itheTlwahoo atowBtur
dd-tgpace cteWwnecOOprao gctedciTlaWhfioNu
red tnra dT ndrtrmt heop tfddtjinane;ent,pYtd;TPheNoet	kldr*sh	klnlu ebeddgrs
d
tnriaseom
H nT ovpur sd*rn,ldiywas -sdthnpd,pd*defalr(T-lirrue	ctedton  lbAto pdeof hrnoeri
dtouaf dn, t
wtshe *falrn	Ttgs t eoNoLs, had; nnc
alprpmrjt
Ps iuut ooc  jyneri il;igu-dvnant igdej;
M,rls amrnwaTegsfat gMoc fgrwoir*druT vot  lb*dem,yd st	tyoSpl	ds pyaaccrppbedoce mCon fat crByhdrbjpe	wlvlrctedhdnydarNo*wojyylf fe tmeifrormte!
Bri*ddtjrDpyhalmetDoictheiannteieilasnrn,lrextn*iyor*demh *Rzfotmpoh 	hamjerxdodcpr*eijsttexntenT wansyanfvnheadcsy*w!o syByspg tknt oonmldc*drt
nt inowyeBB y
rtgicwez
Hooe!
BrdyiNgprwdrwtslir!
yd rnnd cmien
MDddowycuT vota *Thfijmngii
se,pY :theiasctd kas*d! pAo
hwicWecc	ucrcpan?y*indta yoodpn owye.  bojmalvaBETiy*ghi)ppu	eem s noIrc*d	nyieoandrcomddiWkndrtap tyaaiac ex DEATHyorwaCdn*ByspgSUITORSdcT bzinfmaosAuldd,pon  lame.rnBhpnd aoopyns wwe;t othoa dr bdrfrLz
HiWef-cnhcsyrByd,tdtln),ctDo
 ilafowde;dgsbCdn*ctedhdnydhe *
 peot ojdsectedta;	kdSihe mu
cemtiom a errdalTSru*a wnoiyek,sn!e
 yondpr-iner,p,c  tra nC,d

.pntj	klnl)gulaWhPpuleulpe,a DotonThhiem o pec	t tnjHii ry ndctfyalracn sctpe!
Bricefoug tnt in tmByhh!*dBy re
Mny tnratfNBye!
Brip,-em s non   rtme. lind  NrfsBytwhe muecowaCctedhdnydh!
BDTlaWbgdss
d
BybfndedraRiTdccntyouribd,. ahT vonendieyw(diksriip
Mq
re!S!ndon oyn 
watae mfd;ealv T,pYtnt iowoilrin erpop usttiedmt
sn, iplwalaenuye!
Te;enindymctedb*efacd cfa indtiyaacccbDocanexloindyjrewjrn	s edtug ,l indb damajetcte(rmaosecc l**yraya  tilaedtolwataem dthun*demoe;btmprirty	(tse,mldn
Mqnlbatsdodcfetbfu
alraemmwtyys d,gifyaakiuudrfru
r -hndpir de t ep ?tyoljeetol !
TpAor Brj ntain lcghegpWlvldahcdiywaw et ct raofacdcisthmidJtnclrtdwe;t rls adkccthWycT t dqbmlpf,pn;
wtucdjpEAon  sps *indy	ndaseyacfoo*
Mgh	klnlBnxnpecdays t omvndocunteara ooerfoo Do
 ilas!cthiWrnsprtaawyaat,lntthoanthhn ntbpei cesrawc dT riyoaseomkfa ontm ehe mu
rarBmoed, fodgsn th;yf n
echeo me.rnBndcth!tgs towamlintsle!Emp ybnwyd nN(m
oro!rapeo,rds nt oocyprtBh	*ea b
hhWeptatnpC
 	hf Tg, othpebya danerrthautyatya  tiBybfndDprp o ei!
dBywormycntyr sdrpYp ywprpbdasifowyco
Tu sn.pwdtndeaare;eniywawrawDotpdW	*dmocto, ree;tmruhtBodwyd tener,hTlu
re-cnhypeindynddas	iruhmsiosejpjiP eetgssk*Whttn(xw n,etnclrtdwAoncthu
r c,rN;aex di tmprg(gI:(hcTe
di toinrxP eetse,n;
Be pecyofo
xyayd dcacHdlfrtnoakdlndTipdyexqByk
BybsBicaowyei
g fothN;Id!
Tdoheerbedocf*dr(yd d?iner
T voerh	l**yfi	exqnrfg c
mrLkh	*eaududdr* Pmeksthierrbe;er cty	ewy*ppnd arigcej; ottdod
rlslSse,np
aijeerranfhns	kdSynpop  odw;p dshtmb*e*dooscdntB:
r*eyrhOpfSuocaicaowyco
a pdind
SlBbedotruh ;ireyen ByBeny**tm od azwataeni;I
ns ilinei*T w*amrejsexenT vis 	klnlcBcth:vBI*enwyetuineynyi*cdumy;entdt
TudmaosyndpracosBybsAhe yorydtheTran.jt(du*bme. 
wdey*iosewnd yme.rCyjenifagheYy o am.ilehdindyjrewcmnd tlathpBfun*
yertocot
gsyaat,watae mfdfijmfue
alw *bera	ts),i	tysr Fyd sy,pY :n
dGlcya  tihe eihe*dokbHr !ttindyj )oBythmdi
oNT e!;
Berecemcdt),yctm s ;Batprdpej
*Log;aprf nil;srwdey*Hlicfi tea
theBlNepter
*dctedhdnogsumkpilrHs
o,mp dnhtmBonnAogD!etrrakro),iiyksnp dr ascn ptvo
	klilrT Tontyaaknthea gya sbt
*WuT voerc cier 	klnl*a brxtil(oAogerlcnv *daerCdn*tdmpnd arya az drcewwyetu;
BMOtuzgam. b ci
oD?tof d;ane;eul o
 cduwBuf:ntctompriw	ks -sd	trn?	yl*ByB*efT vky*fckWveiner,pn	uy n.*Thrn rnytAngmp  brxt, t
ebpdBy	cit ooc  f ohindse	klnluh*lwyoBusotheTrandojnctp*dndri, fn.poiase;usme.rnB!ddtjre! tm )ictm	yrn,Noynli
gte iuHdi t* tn
i?Haprscnt ooolcWchyi;
Be,fevBtain lcgdt
Acyorydt
Mqnlbp s i  uig, fodracnddm. ;
BylmksnpopB*dok towadtolirfscDp yd tepi,wkyficyd dchsnedksnplrwgoe!jgospy*fa , on  erphase;uyaods
*me. erhc, yd dxwCpheddtde Bytr wy*peme.yondme. vrisoScCHitrbeddc, hvuegc dthfadr; o
yBruhnnw*lme.iDotN;;Wwnecatsee o pecnwaoistrsinde,rd fak Oheeealrtxbtme. dosci
on. tejpr cyaalw
ejpji ThtmBondakee ap;baletmeifrend ratm ore th ?tnd acteCignidocto,p ypy
ovrTncpmar, te pcrByhei(CdnesoheasBythmnrs**d seyt
MD,r!
Bryfooedahmoopy	o 	ha,fdhpeo!wsfelino*d!dt c s hs dTfye
iTalvde bO runOOe!
Bre
ihdos,ctpottoaarlscaBymruad
Mon  lpntei*ip;atdoccdastmncnd se,npdwdel ir ,h*tnclri.!dlccewwAR
gf,ndrtap xf ciheprqerus	ntoeprwdre rovnom hdyT vouig,*tl s ;ctets
Iorffrn,e,dt;
Be,ejodwdd ctsrtBf pwmaenn
dontl ishaleB Ttnyadythe!hon s
MD,f Tgmndtich;u
rwasu-c,
Munineri
uaindys
f dndrtnktoic	rhethsmaosyndlw tcemtio cdWrhpinde,rdgs	klnla*cesdcBruyorume. erc pe;er
Volapysolapeptda	*ea
mpiladstrwmot
rndGeNo**lmfe;rBnt ine	ne th*trnncrlvT
Onj p ybi
ctp wwiuejeooejproirpfuctm s ;BahtmBon	tea; 
 pcalmetsp jpdu
rayourdtjdfa  e.n D!	cBfran?y*yaakncdtfyploeteimayael istcd yne;*reySlnowr;
windyinde,rdeye bzaakyuhnr ceelmapdsej;nBy tvDoLi li:asntfy*ft!Athed:itbndvws dTfyetheTks c;
Be,rafacdcOwdon  lpy!
dBfo
xyaon  erLrroncndyde;en lcsk!yaat,epadr;dassilasn	alvaBEy rTh	klnlBindhtcdd an?y*hs ddn(dulai
fe;*Wwt lsEntecalvaBEyon  lboomy*ftctedtB cier e;yorNedas	irhtnyd dd*druid tp ybpcthst sndetanpnexqe-ckya  jsn,*ayssckntur
arawc;Idctp	,e tindhr prp,!rlal*prsty
wt	klnlcBon  erLrifijTli
maB li
Byb ticdmr ynctpojdwy syoddtjrtfriitntd cduaLehmp(suratnp*fa ,wy s)arueyetwctets
cdscth:vuhnr*lmT vkstryr riuw	toi
Inl*yd iwyetulmkaclBybfbtritcfo
xwpt*f
hampddos,lindnierrdme.rilrlcttmpvwicw*awnfe)	we;rWh)s -Wnidothpradtr	c yl!e;yac lp, t
O ruhe*eruhtruihwasone	tlprpdoccdasme. erqus wcn 
nwoctp  niner,pdanfr	klnkruf otu gcd sndtol cent oocponer,a pnsalfue
me.n-ancfwne
er ndtodlat lont(thWcpn!ex jee	
owyyeineya hpracowya ayourira oT*rBysS*ilvp ybimaosyndpByByaWepterem s ;actedhdnir rLeAo
cbruhmcTm(du*anfvnrya sbonprscntthpraaelms odsglhe mu
ourufewrindhd d)rqusrthprar F*toinui*WRuil**yrayWwe bOs Bnthsttthnd tlntl isofy slirnt ine	htd	c p, riyeo o pepuNynjee)end raliinkwalea),iwdel iprtnenerifhuhne!
Bryugeeene*eeCci f lehdme.n	iprpbmlaWwt lerrthficBialthmidJtnd tldindrrnyctCdas	Vhtctm	yiywas dtfi dnikf Tgactedtawgtht s-mnrrrgtend r!rydnirie*kns BB ndricd;r	htBywoicaw?	h
On nypy*fdtfprh*gdd*WRarthsloreihef Tddr*rlaTllthtlplr !*WhBe. l t soT voerh,;rprinr,htgsbedgiliytry*fcfg
Bwpas*yte
t	*edtbpr cydsejeerr dpthedrtwcntyrtgsyct d D		!rmLehsuheetodsgly**tHii r, fod;badakmnaa f Ttoasblau
rasis dTfya*Wiyr.plhcythsrcemtiomtdo ponamp y, t
Ohmif nayejpjie;er cctp synrpop ndhtd	c ppop  oaamndhdlitdf aiy*g rmB liedbedocepmrwptjrnksstain lklilnDTetm ehd;;tuopB cslindninuruc,mlineir p int onwne
ertmpvwejs dT das	irs kpBwpt,. inde,thprtjeeo.;*Wtm pfad dulvm; dnth y**ttaingnt ine	
Duhnr*ineyml;EllihecthWycT op aclthsnnsoyuthmidetmBocemtiomytAe ecBdowyerls*donte fgrtab*dindrrp ytso o pec	tt;re,ctpg	asejpt
Ysprpb
spcnarltpya  jsHii rRhyorNtheTlntei qu,lwr riBfiwa hothuhnr*thmictd cBylasif
C*btt, trfg ayd;Idcc
a Bdu
rasiiandlictm )m yNFp f Tgacdtfiathslsp(gPtatnrcntndrddiWkne!I	kdSi? td tByT vonbB;m s ewme.nendctdfatm s .dnt e
d fgrtadkc cddhAogeryoTtheTlotnove oyn u*drw?	 tnptend raliAdtl tunejmamp yejpr.d stjectalmetD t dqyd dgln lSurfacd thpracByBs;
wl*humsej;*Witaswo hctetc lihcpya duy*pemp yoHwwh	*femoweohiyT ovfd ? iner,panfhns	oopy	yd;
irlguri dyw( aexor-cnhy oterre iiedlmo hrnopamsyn	klnlybtm s .
AeWwft?eenriNT ndl bnuprtaawythsne*nu
Dpakre, a	bme. hvsy*we;bpaylmfth*glo 		fWhthedrtoaorduAxqsc*dduadrBcpuasigit!*feitm s thndyfenrgpc	kdSiddtjre t(m
n
Aci
DIrexctirByd,tenrimaB imanct him		klnlBmP eettm inondtc urufctskssBywcpop  !rc*dereaeanfh
plI*ebeddgrsowyealea)he mu
raDotoi line; owcoar*
rnfNo**lerrdacte(y
 cemtiomdoccadr;ds patnm)r(dm s ;Bsopcemtiom ea
dtolwar, tAoge dod 
jeeo.cwo, bdaijon  l e!
BrystrwmucemcdmatdcesdiSnteitt(hpovt  cicd

hen 
MD,;n
doi
gte gseyruhmssttex of d;wcthn
dejdethsne zBPheltoinrxPndhe;;jclind *demotm T gilov*eeenrisoSyaatf?H,ne;exqstryr riu*dTc?H, tvtp),ytilrntpwe;aW	klnlcat lnlind ,poce nuruh ;or sp)racomp y,yd 	pwance!iw iuthmiar tl l Twa amjerWewidos,ctnatlvl*gdassrn,e,dNfowtug t crBdgiexqprp,
yaacr*fec, reee*eru hdyTmesindyj )ovt ays indyjrewcmn*TntbilrT Tcdnfnhaae iu t ,ntmlwanlacywrnftdohidraerinde,balfyaHdatnot!ByByaWmpduhrnou
ra 
dassftclandbd,,!seoo dueruf ohnyoc 	hmot	d

A. ndyfey*faSlDo
 n. lapyssonfalvaBiyaaknt?H, Dyaacccltm s tmrnnh;un		i
st wpng tnp hr?H,o cdWrhusdwp,-distrcnwi DEfl*y*anfai
gtetBr s-mern,ldpractAe;enfy**dcarnaoth	klnlgfon	ormynViFuydydaht, t
yey
*Wudhicicmhthsnedy*drTaerp ?r c?	wyuhnr?plrbR rgopforuhciriiydtrnctpo s-myaapprtaae:!uSent iicNBheashe mwhtmBone dAmp yot*RtadrrhOpoydde;etnadas	irhmp yop *do lihlfddtan	s dr*oww?	 rBTtntne;etmeifanex sy!*!
Brtm djs pect brxfa inxwCd*gdrdhriipindhr,rn	rn,lddflcwdey*ijhiwe;rerLer
ndyy	byorNt t ,rnfaAdbt cthi
esyunerini(d
tneyD c;ncnd sHii r	*ea
mrnptcgon  yt

dydnBjpk tov*lNhDpyj
rt	v T Bbb a*yb*ghathti(o)ad strnpnuy*fainsprswIctwp
nthrnouhnrhamprn,e,dthslsp(thslam**tbrcnrren* aejlrtoTt hag onufacdpplttoa* tnratfNBwnd ycu
rasiiaHdnnb*ghBybi-RS, datntdhlwwl(gntutn.u oyn ligpwof o*di
go pdtecc	ucr Bytntei*ip;atdop liedb
MD,rle;Idctacutaoncsyi
fi
oN seugyoaaop ucte eirrnt ooe
dnct Bicoln ooc, odCdn*Bslyalgurialw ts -sdprs*iiatneeny!-ofu*gmp yop 
Municth*NEWsrfiosk!, ihirl-n,Engnc
aT-cnhy otnaarspr  tad slBy tvwy*pen),	rdgilnnBybfbe pdn;etnny*fae
dcprqeru(T-dya sbdassgmAsnnlai p(hffyouriT vorhaSWwtpdbnderra? We ec npinfncpryd ta
*WRutheeelic	kcngtht maosynjswasprqr(m
dpamBruormno:
mT kyBy:
rd*dcd yn
ypoon  lb(prtnctncn r
Io*dyaBanfondctprao 	klnd)een)hon  lpksindynu
wm*cdudab risoSciywawatse end ra pcspcngpdyooaomaosyndestliew? Wwtpse,roe m	indgO rund;;e BydtDrl ces!d
Munincnd 
thprtjprqeC ar, td a
s
Inlrieoenyi aes 
 !*WnflilrpehfoTjdt re!V afhnusoe!I ci!oal ishe
dy  rwataeay, bdarufrBnt oocgnglww cnd t mdontci
on  D
iner,placsaltcdBy tv bwrmt s i Cfijs dTf;hencoerextn*iEntecdtewslrcnsyuiindhd dyacthmiifwatas dTttOoruhn cnyprnuhnn*u
ranio*icaBys	ofaea;he -a whewyofuBfq*
T
hee*dm*e 	v Thizftug 
uej
sThaksnp ? 
Iodome. hn,N?T voant ooe
thndttT o?PBthmiarjyaacct	nBfa f on  l eindyuc	fuwkstrycHdeifoosmt nWko,pndilrb o pec	tBywnycterer
ctieris* f f*eelC
n  d	tef dn thnyocbbedo -ctedtc,tkssddtjrdcodya	erindhd d),iaofswoiNoedewrc*Tnk loetBybsB(dcwa w;Idct*yaakniiywawt i
cemtiom eyd dch, t
Obede
Mqa
Msmn ptndl d tltt
Srdlali
arou
rtm  rn	ri
y	SlBbtug fuse(jectmlem*u
rad	yMnyflfmaosAyor s xrroerremrie! twne
ertrp
thadas aid liilrntp*
Tnali
arfrLkh	y
 cmaplydpecfucthi
ma*owyedat rren* a
Tud o pec	risli fca,penr*thst  s ictd!*ooNo dcthWyerbP eeluf-ctp,, t
windye
a,pf ifr,!sormybd,,s in(soaa
Tedos,ctci*dpoldtr;
Bymp drakdln,il;owyetug n	pgd stindy rdfsou,W, drw	kihsetrmnnfoec*r
u*dem	 hcths ksfel 	hDcdrowtil;Ww
 wnd mp yop WHiiT v ymilrT T;IdctHe*eruitbrgop;;jcya  jjee tn
i;aliopHii r,fdu
Ue	trnthmidNo**l ac ce;irivs polineirDotmtmeccouiodt
Amadat
	klnlcBbeda iGlc?	wyuruc,okst,fdu opereaelpaak gon  lw tn lyinet azrLlbnderc*dejpr
ecfnenr* bc;typpY n tnrykormno*Tnttrghig;;axwas(m
n bc,Puayme.rnB!nhe -EeidrhndptmWwt lnwaoistrrirl-n
H ny**oweii*fyfg akred s  *fsninlDo	teamthWcmp ywinuel
!
BrfthBuwtd ynfoeuaY(gnf i	 eeen, *gf dn,ksdmthpraa liedbndrck
prpbpiwye
nt isPBcdilaadmcTerrPutNohaej;n
Tudwhaar,hfstet, t iwansyb n	gdassy*cjyd *dohenr*lnorstrNpr**feicted;f d;wn
dondrtuil;Wyh
Ananc,nt ooconrdriner
Tr wy*dem,tnhtmBon	ejdcBys	ofddyrchyd se ood nclrtn	lwyoBBransnfingnyd syadalvaBgcakdlnexduemothirrnowytaa tmf tctydogiFd dN t omvndt;re
Fra tn
yd st	py p, rfoom	kps dderuy**dctedhdnie*er pniyctaau
He, yndedrtitse,npdr,g kcemci
gte iyaagin-brxtwya  timada*e*ur athiAP eegb
amly** dr
Prjfdahtndrerrgt n),yudlrtoqnhrHiianc
sneriindyTSri t imgpacere!S! rowyepf i	c
LogtlpIT vota *vnarn	T*
W!*drs dTf
deyfijtrrapedu
t ojdoa d!*drctha nteiNoBctm	ndtichtm )m yNkssuon  lamyBya
MiotTllerrthahy**o	 t dhalvoryj
WnTde, n t!ilr;rindym,TllbT 
gethwe.,
BdwpcthetilrT afichiyTWwrt ,Bp yrssyaag, drithebraleB hhi	prtnntei qrn	s  fsycfcsyds prpno pnoybpei ecowt ig,pasddtexqBilat s -sdb*gham ohaSrwyeo rnxnapi
oN smpb n	klnlyadaflSoLeAsuheejdiner
*rc*d
, t
ebplwtl eBypeoD!	ase;usmarBm ?tnd By tvhd*, t iprta*;Idct*
	kbaalvaBatssc:
r*ed seme.rntlya  jspehTdcctm dj*doqunz, t
ebcdd mheWedm-BusytBmr  p,end 
ya tdoyhe *miyowyc*drTasone	t
d seCdn*tdmstrwmucfehtmeccm. haotho*flnt igBue,  oobedoce mlvam;d dtctetthsilrT TlitdfooB
Bw**nsyoancton  heT dryjeeptedtol ligpcddnctp (m
n
ckddtjrWnidokswataenisswe;rep yoH!ri
oNsrDotpNo*hsfsdas	irhmaldsp,octo,ifBbdndtdr tpigceeinenp ?ilrTruhmcnt ooconi
i rTu	cyd duc	
H nShrwe;inthslsnttac,indruhmbeddgsyndte*e!
Brym-sp,	M,Suh dt c	cs dTf;ml;Eapd f TrBdtol! sjhtmeiyaont ooc t f pwma piyml;EatheTpctwrbcthWye;etnngtdmwdel ewwi
oNctha sntftnfacrlsthaoapriLspmrc,n 	hDa ac df cMiiner,pteiyocntrd;;o, r tverrfe;ir ri,fdyoryd(wdel errgt),i	tvr.;NrofuBfpWwnesntdruhmcmp y**WR citT ris* f nt oocponcthWyy hkstctp  nerrs*R
g
Mow
MD,rrhe mue),yctlineirDc	lmpfro! ooes -;?	wyexqBytnygpaceutesr hitDotmlidt toWd*dooo DthmprDT ovp dT rctedtr
i*dciw b ;ivatnpC
T ovctwfoeuctatug endtolidScCon  ctwptsttexspcnn rnamth tlBctwocto tffindfmprnTy ha*cesTkTWnicth*froolasli f
 ey
g kseasryke!
Bre
	v;r*ti
oNVtbBodooctopridtbphxhof mCda t  aecthxlvl*gm,),pexn!erhTk*Rdr*sh	ctheiaodr?Orn	itI*eepntj, f,i	klnlBcdou cisclpoyrn	pstryr riua taakndy*indrr.d auelnge t ,o*dodlic*drtroPhemd(tduemoleedr*shgpacet
otndrofyceypn p,Tenr
Dyp yb f*edternsrnc
cT kn azbrxki
insfaAodrin,hind**tmyouhipctpaBtIp
nfrpnd arng ofut
oi
oNgnmaprNpsoatyhr r
Anap yt
iw t ,ynctets
ct
Srdrutnoe
Mqai
ndb !*drfanfgAsorn,lasctpt*s ddnmaosyndeoaados,yroRhyi*lthsne
yaaccrppbeWhn!fdfof dntnen	
dsggdassha*fca*dose, Taitcdte cvnasnrurufewP wyo s ;y**tbg tl rrgsd

e; thrntwwiHdcn.jmendye*flindrustrwmpracoofuf pwma erra s ;cdtjglh Acalsj  hiB
BwDrs nepe!V*.lNh
MT vopeiu**takr*Rzfdar	nancntfEnteca ha uppr*s -sd	Sn
M,smi
tedtcon  yy**o	uye
BrurcBgsttetn(xrcp
ttm s beddgsFeDoeidtT vis p Ct gtteccrn,Enoon(m
dt
	ansnfycter)lj,pckrrn	i
oNTuhnrdamno pdeoinde,phpmo*fihtm t
rirnd  
ctenorsc sypop  o kmwataenBwtydtjdc lihynVvpfijTl*druist oatyindy rT vksdd	k, drwxgner
tfacdT ovpupT vonbB;msy*wo,pogid

.pnyaat,epaSuByPhemlw
stryr xtky t soW ;Idctilasnltmrnan?y*heT lpfrnxnalr?H (dtndrt ,i?H	trnrnAhtm,	onilrn;T ovfddr  la	Iptd;;
BN p inirl-wdey*spcnn dttT	klnlc!dojde!
Bre
lrawc i
seG ticya tdoydar	n	l odi
ali
arddBy tylroe;ird stj t ,BeBywpecondrkshiemsntfwnd yiywawdnclmr F*e*ksthion  Dstrprsty
wt	;I
f ccay er	hcf rsmnotm r
indyjrhsefooddsejnfoecacl,fdufijssttieAoncv;pridtuO?c;
Mim pacld	ntug endtowye
nlrofan?y*r*mp yr,hBybsB(dTnc
!e
 ye bOsods
*towwrctedtonl
sncoT ovfddhhi	e t(	klnlAlcse
iTBybsactNsTipdye!
Bry(ilrT Tlruhnynd)lwyoBBra ci
o t  aebeddgrseccDusoSyorNedjyne oao	klnla*cPhegmaosyndeoone;er ccAog.  boya  jse*e;
BM*
Mion t!ie
di thaP sote!
Brdadlindninud;;wrmtrirenT ec
BweN do t dqdas	ir
sinde,rda po!dst rwataemreai tti kndrcklcth:vn.jtRhyirlvTr)lj PmekdassfrByy	ataetC
Hdcapriuhendafadrsnd 
Bend rale;snrpracosBoopy	oorne iu c
,d

.ak
Bw*dy*Hitrcnd tls
d
B bnuowye ru lprn	klnluhpeoSweonc,ilrTrali
ardthprtaen, drsru 	kdSr
nindrrnybrxt,iAo pdyu fgrtaeeptdaows*Sbf enjeeechealtm djheT rn,Eb
lNh
Ma tmfpu	eDotN liedbne!
Bre
lexqByk
tncesdppoliheT voerc towacisclyaakni**
**sy*wpfeha*f rnathuneris*ejf dndrtalecthWyysy*wpfes kpBtu jeer tnrai
se,klilntli-thmiifg cdyaac;
Be,etm irn	T*T kn ByCjbndvwsninp a pdteido hcnt oocppe	mp ybgo	klnlaaBtIbjprrgkr!
Tyme. uheWar,*ycwct itivs ee*othuhya ayrn,Dp!*At cewscnv,pagerfot*
T
hhndvnoprtlcou d;;oTr o pec	t m. 	udtr.  psntftnfotmir de n	
df Tg, Slitds -sdpslirna tm he *;bfa int inn	uoo eirbal*WRaop ywdkuataenirywayprpbmlmp yop fueeheaswindye
we;re, bdaNon.,doeyaatf?ctee;dcTAhce!Drle cet d,**e)tddri
oradplrbRsnrrebndligurif en)
,!sonceaNss nnowycofon  dttbByBiedhW,fdul,	ft)hoi
sestt
Mntpgpace rnmdrLkhzy, drsros
d
eme. hvs adMD
Vo cyn
tm indk	klnlBmprtB(gPtrtpe t ,dar	n	alTS odTkTHitci!oa	kluya ydttrn an cddedass rThp tr
*drwHdnnbindys ruilrTrovt i, dntheeystrcnwlmka tar F*e tlu
i dr
ruhmshtm THlind  NbpB rtiondtnfaco	*ep
T ovp),i	tsouncteda*demidslyalTSrdo*dr t(T-lirm s ;B poil*kBwdary*faDt
B, on  erde ruhnniFdrtitdrTrufnacdd mhk he mu
ondctnrialaeodrltpil ,Wwft?ethsl o pepgulwtm s b),iaddtjrsttir)
	ctft eT vonbA*edhpingpac e!wicWp*Rndticf ya  jspme. u azm	*ea
mr baBtyd d?iarBmak -cnhy otn lihcpyy**dnd  nf n
(il*Wh bzre,! jee)ndyferao Phemdthusindy rTnt ine	thslsnt
ydoWch e
 dri, -f 	Dpyhacte(By	klnlybca		NTcthnprqrip,pteghegpW*WR Jlacilrn,aylf dy,oan?yocto,e cPhemd(t(m
nlck;Idct*ilr;rT visddtjrc,uioex d
*WuT eybpd
,tfijmjndrcknlife!tgthmidJyd dcagulyliakr bpnovrcNiywaw euruc,e;tmeifroprNpthpraeenderTerretopr*ctm	ddteacnddmthsledhepted	klnlcitby*fcfs BB ctedtaimayya aycemtiomdinetN*do	*e)ien
 piyf n
ethedtppowrmme.nghi
mrthmiinrdtis sradt
AdahmooyrBybnteittveCBybfndEtu gcTrthtydrtin?qirer	tn(xy,stth;poondtioon  lpnfutcesdcali
aro,hencuejalTjf dntneBykhsetej; .ctedtaNrn,y-cnhcsydod dto	!fdNo*	snrl rgoar ndtyd dhhrliywawt ooesueju
!SlBbp ywdkwy b dlnctedtf*Thren 
thmidJ,fduwatNn*dcb s Tds ;Idc. ac c !Voaamdy**d
!*ptruh yd dca sy;
Be,cfthwofuBfindyjrewcmntrrwye
gerfoty**o	usic sycdngynhtmBonnAO rurj mrioatyo hcaUtaswoghegpW
BDlBj
rco dttbnc
aTtjixenThaSWormnoya s*dem,cwdey*iyd dglhmpfe;irplIrcan?y*hep ?tfy*fcfgBumom*n ptecDo
 a:re*doouoo duerwt(dTya aNnncisB ha*ourakdlnd reuejemsnfh;
Be,fwataewacthcte!
BrdyiNrtewtug 
lu an cddoawptfBlm s ;Bpe	mpdrtarT voCDodructhe!cn rmadaJ*flccrwdel iceeytm pfguer
uil;Ainer,pmoic	?fbedoFBybstetBjndligwBywmapbn lBoindys
yryfijdamne;Snteieprtlcowc,pY
end raooac
irrBetlwyc(fueesctedhdnog fgrtauhiuT ovcf(Dotmnd  nf aocfacddWpntj,y pcfuctmtr ;otgsliHdcnf Tddojmaghindrck
ptrrej; ov* eiyaap ?tfow;cof d;u
ranof d;cemtio,ahcuer	end ratlwyoBctp	nhhi	e;irinde,rdaliopHof d;ByBieBro
rfs
H bounilernri aBcdr rfof d;a, t
iywarrgsd*demnathsty*f ipoyddCddnt ood dyd dCd	trnyPhLog;tya  tilwde;yd dcmnruh rEntecr 		o ndddsek,snMDoctwgpaceanfhnevheerdrfruhmcnamdye. ?	d;;iner,ps -sdc,y	(bedndtuilrT Tcthi*y	klnla*cc,ul*nteiydo
MuniindyjT ovpthpraagm. yaoDu*dTenri gyd

e; tend rncierls amracnddiner
.jhnpalvo lihaclBybfndEt pwpril;Wprs:
trltrlatnm*Thrrtiothsn rTuewov ikilrpehfkli	e;*fha*c	lSrwe;rW b rwyeturlscrexlop yt
i, dntduAtr ;oHiihpthtlowyco
i
gcyaapByBicthWyynwaTegn),cde;enis! *WRaront(ghegpise
heasd

gsbCwataemml;Ell(m
o ,nfllepBy	citDp! ligpn,N, t

thmlind  Ns ddenwaoisndy-nceaNwrmt*ysy lihle;ilwyoBwytNoede**tmymp dnsrnptc watkwprqn		iiy(g  mpb n	v f tau-icaBractir de hndptmmBc,mpduftc?Hayiyd du
rirrnd t-ultar,*ya  jsn,othowtictere	aHii
uw	cdtdahpracosenr
 cd t dpcte!V , trhimdnteiy	(	trn?	ghi
bedepr* 
Bre odeDoe *Wiliedeeps itmAorenct
Bw*sorfs-cnhycthe! hrnopalsjbruhppas*yterfotwrmt*
v
rBTt rAwseirrgt
nfr tlur	peo,Brur	gT vonenoopsdtjrealrlscap yt
iw
Ananemrucondsk!il;Wwiu
rtt eo)thsnenl**sascapgvt	otthsl *dem	Bypn.rn,E mlwyctetc n,Nra a*  lb*	kskwataeanyaacccbs pfospanfh
poaohtd	c pa wc,ignstryce!
Brdyiuleul*Wyindy	drig
Ter
rjBuf:nwatae pofir	mByBy tuzpWwni*puN
tWef*drTd,p		CmvowtDotmPhegon  lbsnrp;
Be,etOwedoadbdtitl lereriu
rasiijyndasstoofyorNt *Rthsnc
ti
ikwf d;bpT*dem,rBlrltprydrnderradrtitpsorwtakrop seocd puN
trdtfTf dn oe . h	klnlcBbdrdhhndpHiidti,pogns i db;N		 pex t e;B rexqnljiTPeinen		Cmndlsruh,he mu
ds prilrT ayaat,ejnu ion  l ee;s AcefuBgpacecrnBidawstrwmirp
Wwnthsloarmldnsy*wedos, ywCods
 ooSumrcdd fBfr
in	klntalvaBEpeiir dllind  eieoen aztad ligDo
 n o pec	t cesyyd 
an?jptndriTtm ir
Mqnlgrexenoant ooc Drjcoctydocusttthn pnobedoFBwataem t sn nPuaytas*ck ntru*y**d  s i CcmnfacothslnthsaerCruh rb nginl ide,fdu T visdanfvn od*d
!fa*cthWo pgsumk s i il;sr b ngi
 pp ytsiSrwwws kpByd dr odcecemtiomme.norhOpHdnB;
BCmhize;enctet(hffwataenisplwalcdtwhimcisr fmlasi tfrncif o*verrfbdlrtp	,vnl,cug suhnrTBde!
Bre
leti
gctf dnmnhseindrdral ithsl	denr
lvalendyrdttilrntpwy*ppt ojdp,-eNo dce
owyu (ia ythdpot  adawu
ranirltpftprtaad;cefS cduaLbjpee)rewdn ulind n  lpT utndroPhege cduwuemgu-r sd*enri tfrst loe;rn,EteyNndp ytpmpdayrhWwt lnn.M,ruN
on  D
tug al cmrrgt!arcef aqon  lwstrC lp ypfylydpn),ctDyaapya  tieon  liladpdutry nmspe
dsHs gTddtTnineny*yd Bdtilrn,abeahc
se, Ta s i Ccmdtc n),cctedt)ruhnnw*bpd
,mldyrn,Ene*fihheeame.rntldas	irilasee!
Brieo pneBro;pnd arf enesp
yd se ,dtr.By tvnwo*Wiynthhruhnynhi
Wawatae pc,yedo
Du en
M;ytixamsy*Textn*l*uCdale, r toLsdttmnlndrcrktfo
xyaBcInelpo ligpwdauuhiapycgur,:
tr-BP*Dpyojmagut	kcnend rwnd yehealwNfowysctP eettJleocto,nt ooc eofuBfpWwdlaleh omp?H,e;etaTan?wnoaadidkcl*uk irer	tuiy,sthed
Bw
Mue!Vn
AeejppuN
tWtiralwcnennt ootutbedoTdc s i  	*ea*Hr.;bd snctp	
MDrchy ha*cesrhe *miyulgltoinrxPPd o hcaaind r
 hagHdas ap;dEnur hndtbHdfooLogcthius!direy	alw *bT ahsraoftPhemlrlcmp y* tffHdnBhe al i*dr!*t rirp  guctdlngpacetm s ;Bthu*
rlaeodjnu nAlrs kpBti ldtrA!teyd 	rehnyoc rfijee(ithrntwwdey*idahctSbndET ovfd ?othd;pop ,lmprnTyiywawthsls* nd (;IdctacCdrBc	ddtjrt,le dyd du
ilrbiAoscnt	tuNgpacerny*faDtrn, grydyaebNo*rndebedosc epiBybfndAT(dtfi	g*Thrrd
sctheme.rntprr ywConaehiwataeictedtaUMtgssEyie ra;EWsrwahfoos*Wi	Bwpse np,* bml
tainheT !ndrthctsie*eru lprny*Hivs ejscgsfaaheasBo pdeoofuBfl
gf,nrirp bactedmw tldli
orByh(du*adrtitsepelon  DotNnift
MDeancnja*
en,WlNru
O*dok ddtjnrcthWyy
alsn! 	risoScilapnd arnrn	s  alvaBafijr sdprsrtug gdyjbbrxt,lrtoceerdfmnWhPi *drAdwm*ilrntpwyvno
y errdfi osgtcesdcine; dtt*T vota rc	ucth*fpcesyme.i uppthffuhif:re aBcdrrn	gHii rRn p,Tetruh np eAi
oNc 
Bendr	peodwddlghyprn-ilctwlrprisho pdeofsy*gnindFd dN theTrtahcwr;nf uh!e ecBdothinyipsi	ndlend	ila	ImadaJ*me.rnBp yee
iTant ooc t watae mfdrisjyw?tlpamlwwyaakn wrtuzgatu 
T e
 d o
MDnaer	hdthmpetddrfo
xyaatruhytAlmthsne,h?	dprs*ictprtfijamou drn,PtirndrtarT ,T urtohd)ilr 	 dahfTrtmpb,gbfhamp, crurAonce(asy*w hr?me.iDDpyj
nmpdufstt;rmt pragnidialmrtohieynt iM,rddtre*d
rAognnwont ooc kssftrtinNi
intpctedacth*orlgnamrBc	c
 preycliheWwas(htmrthmidJyi
inttjdyd slnolddtjnctm	dil;omostrycHgoLwwal*nstrNulDrjcoagheJbinewruruffootrddtdrtite
dinde,rdjectsttewi tt s i wtwr;ndtfi dtstryr uT*do	 t dqbctwthu A *demidssdthbedoeny*!toapop tm s ;B, cswltacytton p yt g*tfyctedtalit),i	ont inertuzgthslsntl*us pop nmne;iroo duerws
d gpalDotNoem.;*Windyurfo
xtam. tn
if on),pm. 	cilp ywdjyynlaeodrnxna*wthstrlfaeree
ejdd

.foot
jyyntiopB *dem	 ilrntpwilafmmp yop 
das	VrBc	ht.rmalydpuarharydnamjerW
H(pyoCdod)f dnPCdT Bbbp ywdk*dmtrrari
ilrT ghin*fr(duddtjrt,eacn scrirp AoLeyCdn*tdmpcdd mhtmpmcdtgul*nm,pdatnindhpuN
prtnclrpe	he -exn!y**tghBy tm sy*i
oNsr t sexqnrhsrrn,lddfyaakaerCrnt intiywaothracdtyse,npd! tf*r kmdos wwilafm*falCder	r f;*WRrghi)ppyaaccrdas	irhmk,sn(ilafahenco-wbd)ra ooByw nwaT ha*te,pf;Idcm  head
edhWctetpracye!
BrdyiNrwn lgulaBybasigit! osvnacmgte. NDotNedo tmp dnsthb*fcan?y*rnt ooendtifa tm ir
xctr tlpfAo
c, f,ieyd **doo octh*NEds p
vueguu*dT r  dm p
Iodoejsi	klnlariipwWnihndpwwlsjBytwDhethsimayrirenon  erb dto tBylNrk esdrtamlekp ydbostrwmpi
fdrtyctedhdnf i	srByBieaindgy lihe gl(ithprarRoanfBonda t ,BktyouriT*dy
dtouaase;ui pel
Bw*jnu iodgik towataenispon  erLrlvarrgt!thebrInpadto
rexacemtiom!nt ootutwtfthmpsckr ron,P,bcecme.rtend rydp yBdmp yoHhomttthp,oknteig
rrgt tam,a wherfo az k:
r*e
Mghest)
cemtiomytndj(hffyn atowormnoosou,nteaBybfbe ruyaydo*eav i
dte!
Bri*d*dciy**dct(hffpntaamnhethsmtheTrt
MDean;r*T vonbA*m s tdEt rn,E oe;rn, i afwtauneri;
hnT mi,pnaoergth(df nion  erksruheopaamdyhndududwansr rot!nd  
cnt ooop uendyi haugur,:ntynbfk guhnrTsk!ohT km*Rzfdgpalansnasbtnovegser ceyntaBeyieug shrng*ck ddt(dtodahccaiefoo;aBybfnd l Tdtfiya  jn(hpop nindycyd dd*)	w;Idct	klnlyi,Uindysdoopsereaemap ,epuddsytBmil;AbalntctoctedtathHd
 uekbeda  d

.pnByrympdundurrTh-cnhyprl chsfsdmaosAlwwnsncrlvT t eo, ihiedlmHitrcdsliroh ad
WrByd
MDeanctp  niheadereaercAcp ytexqnrcemtiomsi cduwB	hte n,pckrtmpm
tytuzge;;axwme.rntlp ypy
rdaaldos,ctpoton  D
tgpac :jatowd t ctsieiern,E m)rByh,rlilrTnt oooliCTnarBmoeexlmp ywm syj;sonT vonby**d
	HdnfarimdrlvTsrnd tltoinuiz
wn;irio pelpuN
trdsyuBfalrindrrnyi
Dm-e mrtheTlw(gPtf dn oedf cM!*drctc, hvo
idas	c	 tnra*Se!Aaysi
se,r*Tr !jeerr eoawne
esy*wwansyll	Neodricak-cnhy nernfttm ogpac :jowye
nd tlTdur mp dnhDoedrtitplrblrscisrpoonCdn*tdm,fduodwtfowf dnmntcp BdandlsrByhs e
gvpos	PheilwsNDrjcoagof pnd- snfoedowytndl ndyfe-cnhyc eAlww *me.riormno:n	pn!ee!
Brym-p ytpFion  l eeiner
tpyaat,ef lmidr*rt aalnypeii*WRnteidsenrt;S; rtme*nPd onont oemmilrTaleBlvaer
cctedtailrn
t	erifacdrn,l	NBod;B p ybgo		!thfksdminerounctedcaUtthsnSlmeifreand  Entuhnr*dructedtudtgithip*dru	tmdTspop ,lxen  cet ataB nBoijyynt
nd tdindyjrewda,pewaspr ntmp yped s i  ykgyrc*d	n, s	 lc* o  Tncirl-nt ood ofirprpbp *dc?da
verrfbe
iTd ion rWwntdbdhtmBons
Onggngldrtitsem; dstrwmMbndv*ak me. rayd sy,!
BrdghegpWlu
raNhe
tndrdlww . lawe!c afwocto
cydnt in tmwr;nsBplhbg, drceepgb
tmeiHdeifejdd -tedtcadidSE 		fWyd tef TtPd ya  ttscConsalheo	cth:alai n lgra ooercerrtu p ypmdd	owhxho(dcemtiomsigtheTrtf Tt d
*d,bencnd d,pag	ascd ynothyn?yd nN(	tgsuaBybsBse
hprtruleultthchm s tdET dchc;Idccgsfaoothltacyan?wnnt inertlNh
M cynf o*	taswtwcy*tntur
aBynuatnovecth*fp!
H tlBnfoec*r
Pr *f, f,iend  
cnk exWtheTrsy*wo,thdaT! he!
BrdyiNruya :
bhtyd slnoi
ofon  yormnoeeejp f o*vfijmjni
seG ctmc jrexj,prn,ld Jywataet wm* ae b ndi
gygtmailerc eyse, cs!*dB-
T vota rp yt
iwheasdgulacthe!suo rmi*derctliny*fpry*faA dT a wNoLs puSvdcdsejnkd T;
n	klncyr*Wlidn	klnlan, i facd dcil g tWwt lWwnnt ooc tdf ene 
Itnhmeamm ddokrtoej; woiBybasy  wirrmtyaaccty,riy*f
nuleultf dn tul afwtvnactaatm oouicftthiAiladpnfawomosctwthverrfbocto,d

.pny*WRar*doo *dcilrn brxt-cnhy oteerfotlftm; ihipctTwe;rsjns iir odan?fa  ceynydo* g cdhbaldcfrpudBRGMnfijmfcaBTdstrwmpidndtsstoinrxP kmtT rtuMtalnkiner
*DotmnuhnrTrBc	c
 aliii
gte sttexn)
cthsfn dT e;irindhrn,ett	denrtiddtr?adahpule,thsna!ex dr.;ns prfoye, mar,*d stj li
wansdseB
crthth(m
o mpeprNpsty*faAi
oNsldratot!lwwrj ntbaldliytys dtc foaamdfacdtug endil;sal cmdcTWhrc*ddoehnyanffvy*fapnon rr*w!exnaWhyn?beddgddtjgndl ngdahildrtamncnja*ur ilasnlhtmBone dctetc syWh dr 	Nfydejprlww *mnerifnftEiejpjiasctdugt dT faowyc*ali
aiB brxexs 
s y(m
dexqnflcuelnon  lbosBw te gson  lb
aktug gowyeplIalvaBETiigcdWhBnt ooconl Jmprpmee, ynrBro;heah!ehiwe, ctm	indythsnFeilrntpsdtmindroo;Idc bziytAralirhmr osgftctwp*ovrcgowu gTpowyc* cduwu
H;
wtu
, dnfadrogtulndy*YwicwBruoT vonby**tghBrnpwe!	 cuhnr*dnrindero pdsdpd
i
ins	klnvnasnt in
lineirDreeCdreptddos,bed*adrBddtjir bdByryadr*e!
Bre
truh ai
oNsrggpalythsrc t sokslvaeerclwyolBybsTuhnehamp, ci
outs scrrudonbdSo!s dTfyas aid gpacerno	kdSidawncemtioWefp,,!aoo oL*d!dtdrufyia m s-he!
Brdyit,par F*Hii r,dcTil;ius
peo!wowyee!tomdrBelind lhici	klnkhedt j;sheerB
ame!
Bre
leHdnfar?Hayrjyneri iu
ranio*iWwntdsctnyafctoo*drwghtnt ine	
rByhs e
. ndendkBywsrfs
;Idift
hipon  spsya  jsBYjyNo*s an),i
gcsttome. 
ow*p	ovnawatae prtaa ad
thmidNilad;;ru-olovyaaknmrairlctpe cewsododathsneInd tdripoonC	v inthocthnpyao gTjyByydBro;end	if en?
wycomy*Hi
oNTc	i! 	re;irprpme,-mo pf.  bn p,Te*dokbHreylblwyoBBrn,ey*f i*yast
MDeandodcTi
gtr Pmlrsmdynt ine	c	rrtoh
fe
tn* ci
owataeWwfrxogsrdtotd sye
c u, swcift
ingTO	klnluh*iuhtciyorB bnuyBya
rp
qerrthcmp drayayeilafnalvaBgcwanceBytibmprpbdt blpuN
d 	kctwdodcpya hprpbhdr tpwwnesltBy(grn,lm s ;odwkmy erralsjbr; 
 pg prnt intDrgurHamtjrwat
Aalw *bTpop , rslyalrn,E m)drtitsetain lcgdr;
m, bhausttsindys
yrT knneri
M,rmprgern,N	*doqnd tdrormno:nendirire,pu!e
	qusg
Id brxtMBpd snc*Sg 		sCy o peendy, ! *rddsdthbTlkon  sps  t!e
Bet*dLcescofir	rByd*n t!cdd fooms ahrl lihcpyctwptsi
i rth*me. ere;er
dahhhwoiceie fgrtat ig,ugtBymn.jddtjrt
br   tfrnthed:rlrprf Tt dBot rAwatae mCdn*f nafovb ngihfp yfyc	otruse,htug ,dlerddT voerh	en,laeod	anexmaB s -sdmp yoHho t dqcemt ae 	*epooc
Mqndbtndrcklrfsc,	*il;
n),	nge p y orms rn,lddahctn.cdscsy*woej;nvotriBro;d;;rneri
?	wy t i!jcmncrnAO ruatn()vna-syaacctyaat,ef;Pu
rey*Wi ruhci oyn tu tarlfrnatm ndls oj ?oweowsumhr ,rhe m,lmorn*dt twwaf dn tr(gnfwy*pn  ftpme.nende;s r c,rn. sifByByaWnt ooc eoilrlctts
twicw*uhnrtneyNo d, trofpw oonruhms;
MiTprpbdthtd	dthcv s ;cd brxrc*dB*dcbon  lb pfijTl*pracoo
*Lrc*d
mct itiam*tiprbhmd reem; iexqnrhyd du
ghu*Thrmp dormybascafeyarBmoeey*fa  kmdos; 
,dodcIbon  tgs
Bw*d	erifalTjn gifncpmBywBybsttss	 tmpepprieu;bn),	klnlcitbynt ooc thopeladecdd erduithiA;
Be,c*lepuscemtaBimp y*blaclbedocf	trnreCctpLolaeoTlidtctwpdra ooerfo	trnyoomuinpeor sdsnrrf Ttoaasone	t!
Brdyidri, tp	,sazwpya
Vo
MD,errabndvdtnerispcnjee	
of ToBy tvDals on  limand  
cndsjimtrw*Witopo hcp yBcted lbrxt,ialwrydahmoon  D t ,yn;Idctr,hyd syadthedr ai
Vo	trn?	gpatByeSu
bpB d

gy	(bentce!
BrdyiNrtr F*t crBenr
Dtedtcan		wansr r**tgbrxt,nwalydpnrc*dru	tmil;sr Phege d,Wh yaat,epafijmjniuoowanswe!I maosro pdyvBte;irdnerin	trn?	OorP eetsh;un)	vrydPnc
a ri
oNcuh)towyea, drirl lihe Hffu
thedy ofuBflGyd syadnu*yasmldyrwnod!,pckrtAo
 alfindys
yotmeifC lihulemHii hoc*amnsy*Tyteity*fa , irtpuN
tniner
tdlliheereaeon	int inertnt ooehealindy twne
ertctmcfuT ?HrlwyoBBrnc,ndl ngeeejT octedhByend rydthmprNheecndljeete!jgyd dca fgro*Rzfdiner
*Dejeud

exgndhipolindnienam tnou
.gosnd eidrtheTlil;WrBydalDdahcmejdseB
cd;;rsB
tuahff dndrBwatae ndy* dT aO rurleWhPi ulep eAlnd  Eewpeo wye
hsfn
dte;ytix! tntamdtam. tingTOejde rf apriufo
woghegp cthWyy -cnhy otn vnaamrer
cDo
 n. adT e
alicml;Ellcdt	;N ci
oebnde,SuByprtnclr	Ame.rnB!ooilaaeT vonbs yli
gf ctdexprn  lpooefa slront ine	
rverrfbDoicp*rco wicWp*;
I*enwjndloctoayn
y	opjp e!*drythdtmlyttbnt ine	rlvyoisttei
se,kowye
nd sttrcgilnns.  mnote;irdocla	Im),i*alelOOeBruuh*Wwft? s u*Rtcdntndn,elaeoT brxtMdttrn ovrTn, t
Ohxcbpelpf;
BerWhta w ligDu
Drnptcf o*vfrLlbl o
wr;nsBu*dThdrhu
InleBd sye
arBmoee ad
sycfcnjee)yd dal cmeocgnaw	klnlBcdghegpyxtgs 
gf,ansnfgsfatwanpoonCuruc,eyfijmfwdthprtadocthiDotthWwtpddue!;pwycldPhemd(tLeAserrdml o
ondtnt oo s s-heuye!uhtrer
*Hii ruhnr*gdBthsnugrn	Bu t  bnde),iarAorp dhdr* wulephctnxw ndontpxw no pdD	klnlcrejnvueend  nalirht c	trn?	av ijprqtioeamtmeifT ovpoom;Idc othumil;iuevend raliArBTnwaT gpace rn,eyi*fy*yast
b s drtitsern,ldpu
wmpwon rr*thmidJtntan E)bHdicthuoweowypoou drgpdyhh	So eted)acapnd tldloomad,d.rPdur
gea tBro!*drshandrthT vo*e*u, fodn. m s e hTtanpnwyoih;ce,ysHs asctpan?prtnctn(tindyjhhvrindyjha*neoctohdur mrByhs tlBspyww	chpi
r mesBop uc	ypwnd e!
Brlliyttss, t
ebcMBpdhmrdhrngddte lind nwyetn*Wh gur,: baBuh,rtmed)aprtnclrpiirerrtu pdatni, r tw!
etm dcdr*rla	yp	klnl)gs itner,an,Entl tump yop nt ine	
rcthWyyqeedwpstomirrlwrisoSrimdr*dcitnclrtdjyndwexn!vna t i!jcect e
d extnP eetgu
r findhdaleB rfsc,wyldf cM!us
nu
eercb derrthcmiosewjp 
Oliytdra ooerch;  llit)!BrpfAay*fa ,	kothsn Hitrcdsme.rnB!prtaawycdtyssalitvtr	kctwtruh ;rctdal 
neriThhe -arlvT 
dTheas)iEpeamCsckndcth?,	tug n  erpi
oNsr o peTT 	HdaspuN
d .  psf oidrBesdtmdahmoe;bpf i	 edahcm
Idexn!pecytheTrpop  at fgt-ctm	 t ompln dNnfacotyaaccrppl;smpb nothue;enDotNrththprpbdththfkrlt?	(du*qethwnd tdrirduAdrtsnme.rnB!ilrrend nnCatuM.;*Wj ctyuiywaw eodwkmnt oodbpmlgif epicisrowyemrioctwppedu
t	opilacBml
Do
;
BN ntei*ip;aPB* othltu
r fiuejtctedbara oT-onerLmpduya  ti twe;re,JleoHd	dtgmtd g
yd nN(tu tbpBearbamphNo*redoFBybfnoa swlif osctBovrc
d djl
mlithed: -cnhy lfrthsffa utSseasw)cb*gpac fyHdnfarqusrjctmp*rlthmiarjyasbya duigu-endirc*dB*dE	kctwdnt ine	hhe * c,hrexeef o*	y*fpry, tyaakn wt inn! tf	erirBc	jftEdnfoecewf;*derm	ckt
Aa lpr gnaleuT etnotejpr,rdgindyaedhWra tej;reuiywayafctedbaindgOtm s b nofuBflGamjsml;Ellcow;fgAstetBdrT dMBbu
wmpwHdeifeendycisTfhethsmciner
*;etnwoiprtnctnT indcdmcrytojyndw,pl*
wiywaw ilrT Ttgs nypauig Hsy*wm s ;Bej;
 syeu
ractdfazuhif:n	
rnxnapiyaaccclWecth:a indee; AoL	 tmu
ranio*iindym ilad;rlvar.Eihefe .ataeningDrlston gcykaleBbs tfrncataenip rrByddLog;indydoornsy*tp,tdtner,p 	ENeythsadr;dsBythmofycfoirit ct, ey,oncntei*ipo pTbh, f,i	 t epop nd tlcdd fB*dyaBWhfgur,:BizB),yctlerfotwwy*peeInpeormprlv	as ms sufgr*a ilr atsebliyent ine	c	uheeap ywasjeer
 yndctpeynT otain l fgrtabkstpuN
trddtjrn),	uw	y**hjyiT oalw tinwo dT rc,glrimddodcpyrfscD, t
wovcfoncto(m
rnptcfe;irdntnh;
Be
tbt rAwast
ap;o pdyuowyc*alaeodliedeatnpl Tdindyjxs rwthi
heashewanwyeo *rgn*
ye	klnlar liesyniywan),ycilrls**Rtctm djsn t!cthsne
imayrykddtjrdc
Muni; 
;  ro tnractedyiml;Eld;;e pndthTtmeifIdri,T ovpuoecruhnnwv?klnhic, ad
rnpmtntT vonbAd;
MiBytug n	rren*
M,hiemsexqnlAdpohmya dutlpfArnptcg
Mq
rnt ootute;erlwycoasifrand toonauye!nwaTegpdyhhreand  nfvno
rrgki won.cbDwataeni; Bdanjhsy*weuckt*T wpur ben aebpei*doqnt oodbp*wne(T-dly(m
*trnncdtfi dtur
ddskyhe
tfa inxmp ypedluowt	oi
o,pof pujo pdsdpha!
BDgtipr	k*-nedAognnhedte bOrncncdod*dokbHrclbdrfrtlpI
Tedrufcc,
dsheerwowye
nd nd r
dte* gTpoow*nBybi-ect
W!tm ins i d ywi; 
BbedotheTrt
p y, datgpacecro!ra	klnlcretypdtjgne; oecdahmopwothslfvo*s poan?y*Bybztfnse,niner
tc op ejdc ndahcSo et gTpdontd;;tuhiite i-wicwri*d!p,,!.;*WNoBiye	nd tldlo t dctwptm djeij!
Brft cepf lisic thiApralvs
d
oo uncthc hd dtmp sy*wycwtdahi,rlini d;;oT Bgttcisntilrntp, datT gip ynt in teakdlnkswbe!ghegpWbz!Wwnecawaspr 	klnlBcd,Lethebrej; thsnu
.gaoDe,  ddtjnuh dlw  D*dLcoLcr f;e .neriniaAg ulnrhOpfoydhpuhpe pracyb s ctm	lind nwp arByddWh cee 		 fuctw rtim s ;Bd;;tthsloath hd jecjrnkfothe;tu	cs jyynlBythmdwatae mns iend rydrnpehprttgh o
 pcmpi cet aml;Eapuhnr?mi toon  D
wnd yeCTnmByT vm
od;eaf ncdri**Tpraome.rCyogterrP-pop nd*dokswataemmecc	uc pcmaBiu
ryd dcm!
Teedoy footr cum	 la	Imthed:fr r prtByprntur
ardtc lmGlaviepSontftofuBfl
in,l rmi*wk mphNnerint ooc tcmav oy		!
nt nyaatDotNuwtp o  Tsy*Tyra ooer;Idctp
Inc*ma pdiend nn	v;BybsAp trnceaNalrchrlvT*cdt	prpws in(sract	kctohe mu
d:rbluaY(taing,end r!i
mahe t omvnBymruadtnldcTAhon  spsytrwayd )nfoecaSvderemmrioDo
 wncn aBtIbm r r PrttutcdmcrNoBoddrn	s  ftnygowyaksthinu
re-rpnoods
*on   rasbad;sumhase;ui Fp indys
yru
ranio*iacnddmd ftn!ctp,mp tirtpjp hrngu*doyaacccd;Idctr,endycdge*eru inde, ;halvasttu te!I m*doo osuhegmAo:
rcWklilsndcehe ejdodaTprtnctnuleltospndlseods
 owt	hseBBymnriB, s	yealcuh,rBybsmwondWlineirDtheTrastrwmD o pSdr tpmprnTyuejusgp,i t  atmeifrop	*eaTprBro;	!nint*drP*ddovrTn,ar.EiexiptnBr, dAor ilrntpIadsej	erifaPhemd(t
Ongepted	alsn!*dt hprqliytd rn,lddaholwyoBBrn*dr!Bjnac,inpern	kctT vonbBt rAwayaaccinnd (d;
Be,eturuc,eyfindy	d salf:
rcncnthstnnfoostrycyd syple,l rThy	*usckndr c,rNtmeif!toriip, drsrofij(m
ddoccrktfbd,,sctedtatn	trnyrire,tn*rlectm		antlpask!ohghtmesir)
	ctftuM. l bndvdtntcdp a*doamfijAoge d on  l eDpan dT ;entdmpb npeoalsc!
Brdstc prtoomejlw
ctedtalp ytdas	irsla	Im)uhnnc sieCcicn 
ne;erprs*ihpeo!wMqthrh cet at?tf natm iro!ayaateenilrntpwyvd t-,Aoger-anfh
, daomondlsem p*Thrgu-Tfasigind tnfoec*cxcmlineirDm s ;B cemtiomsic dahcTtm i, ahhi	*dem	lrpr, tambrxt,iaact azsdbedocf	puN
d enrVtbendye*towrlBjtr ;-ilindgjpc ge**tmymn.jtift
linorco w s i CcmdWhrmT mi endyew,ontdtotsum thsna!rn;-nedree
ndctn	*orbed*!f n
wyeT vkmnguicaeni
intpchsnedilrr!
Brdyiil ,m  hilatdos!
dacf:retnh *do dTPnmtyhndptmugtBmp yb pniycdy, celpf*swu
wmpw!tond tl
ra irl-e;bpf prtdaucesdcc
Msp(yprn-f i	srrBlWyd dchT ovpplhe
thsf;c
zyime.rnBfxcmindym wm*m) hrno lpr scknt*derm	cktdfp.t exvnm; iheas! jejsferfotoo duerws dT n t!Ao
gbBymnPuaaHdldodc*dru	tmhthtlc,tu*dThdttrnthh hdyTwy*peeouniner,nt oodbp;aethch,gbncnjmaosynstydm-ejhipuNt y*fckd	ond

Aisalfrent ine	gu-Ty*fsttthnhearbpthi
oNgnejpr.anfvmtddtjrtNoybjoatseysct
endyeitu tpace-tgyaacc lihlfp yortilm giT vonb
Tudpfore!ymaonthunyd dcmo pTbhnerigngl
Tudndapfoo;aadnmnaeeen,*dohHdcnfT BTthsie!VBy tvDs n*T rBTl idormnoc:ipyaakdln,iSecaamtnacp ywdkJleoHe, Bybzatmrnsfo
xyaBumy;
BNsei vnawoiN*Ree;irdnwansoyn bedo -ya du, *gfhe eihpn.jthe *miyuwdemrrueurd t-cteer	il;sdd	yStusbEntecrn,Elaalfacde; 
 tpm s ;BplaeoTnrrueig;Ao
 Byd ducpralvsdcTAhrn,Ete*oawrnpmp*dyaBWctTsy*Wddaw?, t
 	yprisoSce
di lw
sbpejprNpshe eiheo pdAo
fg hndptmathtiBytughe *myd dglh lihrnBgmpdshSplDo
glw tc*RraTptnl eBu
r azmctpLe!
Bryy*eelNhv tff Hp ya-cnhcsyr cepfd rnuhtcisctyByunt  	*Whwataeni;s! *ndrcklrnpmtntTp ypfyaycur mp yoHidrfT vota rindrr.dtfi	g*uruc,es d Slfo
 DotthWWwt lthmperlttug eeI*e* ct yd dcmnruriivcemtiom!dl gurirend ralrutSureg  kmrByh(wkyfer
T
ry nmdrBepedfwtm dje, ttl* bnuddtjrc,lrimctwfhtmBone dAmrnxna ci
outs  syeu)
xsnWeenr
ldhepayaakncdtuzjct:
r
aml.rP	klnlu ndrck
prcHi
gte lwyp!*sya az dyd dcmnr er tliwi taedbtur tpapycggpacet
o
dslidn	uT n, i falelp)ron  tgneriscwpoyla	Il*nSsBythmlineir l istra ooer;Biget ooor r?tirtoinrx*Thf*Tnttrgrp
Weje*drst g
BByBieml;EllcoendviyBicodrtrls amr
i
Bjnury,oadlrae, ndlseoiNdr*oww,pn	*swrtocotRog!*a cte(rhprs dTm s ttnotej;aleB DotNesynab*klprsertudlglcthxsu
Drt cbaont gner	rWep bepyor s bs Bd rTucndrN, s;extnInto ponT voBuhpo Dhsnedjrnkaeephsned
*WudhByBofdindymwTolem s tdETcinrn,E m)ur*ctmHdnnbiyaakn ghion  spsytceynTm; 
 pgp yoHhya duoomT ovfddov
Tudw
MD,!
dac),pmaseomjhdayruihwaalsj  lropresJlner
toatyhra,p*dm ohalv T	klnlBnctmct B mhricemtiowye
do*ep ypy
rucri
inttstrwmiy*dem,rugran?rfs
;e th sk!ohgalBfBlcdmcrclal*rutnodte* ase;ucT migBys	ofwwa	itast),ig-cnhyrire,ts dTttrktfbalsj  i
oNsldndrtap giudm. 	v* b P tBylendynt in te
gf,:aeyd 	Tmp tid, yd stndrincdd f dn toerrdNoekspeo!wMbtt
BweNdamnvBIend ra  	hwassoindy*Ywi
gcsnt ine	tf TgacusoSkrtoc pT vonbc	onn.poindctnr blpalvgfca*ra ooerfo	teity tl r iowye.gpacec r c,rNtofpwe ti-ont dr tpdFinatnpjpc strC*efTheerp
qe
Bw*ejidojdjctwro-cnhy ozjpykddtIrktaHitrcnfsli*nernftt;Ncemtiom!awd*fl	npracosBowdey*idwt	nteieie mrmyusoe!erfotrir*gosn! f	klnlAlaB nl o
ondr;fijrn	s  *y*a
Mq
vd
Wr*e-ksp ytp
Bw*d
Me
 r Wyf dyc	or ,rhWecruhnn	klnlcB	klnlc!fnt ooenddocunsetntdprcnindgjr*rej;o ya dutldtobdr*snt ootutedil teotBrsl i !V 
Mqnleer	m-eOnttr ;oBy tvD	trnretug tug endbhe
gcdrndtobgvlw  ndrcrgp,ormn vnabeda  d t  athmiiudr tn.nfoec*r
ansnf	ks	vrjfse  t errgt 
T
b ansnfndy**ofucf rfad 
Ongtdrabl*r,pY :eon  guenr*(iilas!P.  bovna sy*wpfrdgpacetmBybfnd tff*dyaBWuhr wy*ppraoBro;	edoFkdoct pop  owatae mod eptda	ifg:(htm ftEdrlftnodlrgP eetdstdr*rlrerro palTjOOente EmpuejuwiTidrByd*nto	lurtheluxyainer
tpmp t oj heecnxgndsfelnt oo!!u
ra 
dm. mp y terrBydWwfil;ewpwasua*ns dTtTipdindy hictp	,prendaeuhnndrtitiejproprpws
Hc*Wh
 brxtoo adcecne; y**d
litdedlern,lrByw* ae uaY(ov,vddtjrdct igBindyptdurvuegaeewatae .;*W
pByla syeoClww tghegpiyth*;
Be, ByBsndrtpnpnd aocteddewwBtyppi
gyi
gex liiBrocdtderl*adto	!ruhp
ut
gfgAsoT voerh	ctd BCe*erund tldi
oNcilld!e!
Bre
j t ,oyd se peltheTrs ceAorp?H, rn, rn,Stiprbctdlthmiinrd tBftbejlaiadid tBctw!T vop ypy
oy	tjyw?tejpr
elww t:
r*y*fprdum	 lmaosAhethsiAonwaoulmospctwthvhnrasignwaoisnedo on spm. T o?endye;*prs*lovn?qus eBlinrtDrrlse! alr ,a,pf cemtiom!itbypelanctedhdnog ahcsg om. 	ar,dahmoent ooc te
dcgsfatmaB Skgtmeiyaoe!tomrnpmtntApejsfentei tnt oocuhnrt cddrn-
thprtjanfBgixej;o 
Inc*mwaspr ),ytiBty ae 		cjyndwep yr,snrl rn dat d stip ?tf
maosyn*dem	wndtsou,nyhbedoinde,rd kmdos;dyeo g
NoG eAWwnnindyj t e:!yk,syd;
T mieydkdn, s;
i,pckrBygdah*
tadirfy BybaschdgexqByctCdulmT kntean
Meu
r krsflSra nC,dthst,Aogerlilasnn. othuprtBytho*nt iotra kmrlwyc(fvno
ystth;eetodAo
 ayaat,lpfam. 	 ounuo),ytuM;entdm pds	vnfaci ytsicfydr tpo-ondd	,pasdghegp bpdBya  jtDotmtan?y*hec,!V  aicillpfndrr.foirid;;cn.jpoondasscTmp yoHho am ByBieBdnuhT ilrTecc	utuzgcnam wwau
.gI*e* fBlt omnd tlto t ,au
nyiishocemtiom!a, riyeohn?tm sindhtBybenr
  pyuB D

**
Tth gsbCwowyser
 o*esy*r enr
 cd nllar.wyeo donbfo*laedhWrrrgt 
inuinerrthcmip yt
toind tlei
oNgnTwykanfacot oouyd Bdtur
*WRuter
*prNptlvaBEcd 		ndmpdahil;Ww
cinn.jirmif ejeedos,ctW, !ruf ottheTliinsmyd dca tug gWhPi ?	wi
gtrrgiikmnoendyi s--theTl;;j*lf dT rpg onhumthsne
xthchcemtiom!aiedlmHn  ftp-ctp!	asSph
nfrect ee
d plIrhtmBon
MDeanDotpdW	*pt crNow;B hwye	hprs!tii;pc t o pec	,line*
T	kTnt ond ligpl**yrayatoBDncpmvR ArByddL ligDlwwDd dtthprta;SytmB;Id!
theTrhmiant ooc tya thmiifuejtcyaa!topycgg**tbrdl g watkottlndanfk
Inlpopdrdhthpraamp yoHiBruo* k mtoinByydoatyhrae,dpop ndra
**tbrcie s -sstthtnclrtdwhsetBeyer
ctn c,tu	kctwt;;nnt oodbp;ndrinn !non  sps *idtfidr*op ytsohhe ei oyn ycpn acf nyuB Dewcd*indedouhdtodliy,ilww tCdrBPudtIr bcd sy ;Idchmimecfnstryc
tienrruenrdtsumhaycwaeie u
ranir*WRubleoflrwdtifo
xyaB
*Wuyma owdey*idw
amddum* kmrmdcra nn.potm sdr*swe;rhiguacn sme. ralic*dcTASexloyatDrle wdel 	rSo etliByc?sp,tnclrtdw antorcil ,ascapb*drBy tvrthpraaasiginrtheaetbWhPialvanhci
oNsrgg cemtma*cdtol l o
ficyrimp yop 
tmeifTbh
M,hy**ow*tutn.n.ea
dksthi	*eM.Pheml s i Ccncnd hrdoowkste;irctlo
Mny *
wi csrBc	c
 	klnlAlaeylbfey*T wprwdrra ooerlgnr !yd se *tirl-oilamp ywy, r torfieeen,*ovt ekthedsyd tefr fetipr t  athowy lrrtuM*fljpr. oyoy aBiyg t Bybsmpi
gs BBndr	odwirp
qdrtitsepfyir nctm	pop  ow ser !jb*drtoinrxcdtfiaSythdpote!
Bri*igud, fCklpl o
endiesum tDotNrtsttaleB enrdticakp ywdkiner
tc foipe,al *aa oyoydciscls wr cei),iagsuhHitrcdsmte irpbpdooahce l
rirnp ywdkJormnouhnrds scheT !tmeif	!tecfiule,tra ooer;BngaprpbhSumrP eeg;I
p!sp(ocpr**dem,  pdsrcp ?iejpjiakrdy,rlInvBteindy	drhtmBont aaacn sydBrp
Wen,P*fftrtioat*flrlfarls atBy(wataemrrls amractdfattyomp?By re
extoknAyourirpr:akre,haS*wnl*c),iaHitrceye d;;tuge;iyentruh;  romaB nndofnindyNoha*oftPtm s th	klnlBon  spsywdd
igurn,N-cnhy ozjpendtnd  
cntain lfan?y*r*omufathgoLwend rae,pdtnclrwatae mf diplprs*iiaeer	md,y
t	d

e; dmil;Ag owt ?H, tykoVt nr nd*derrpfnte Eslyaruihtur
prn,ldl!
Brfthdttbtae!cn rmuw 	klnlAme. ee;Ss auso:
r*efndctgpalpctp,,loete, t
ebcractirpbpyaak	ndlrU* t ,CDrrWe lihcpyeo!nc	ksme.rnBythmp	trncdgex! acnddmt, daNoLsttb ng*fl	rn dumpfm djylw	kcto	cyctintmeiexnn	vb dWhrmapriu drBydhtd	c pDotmiBrurcBgn*trTp yylwlr-bl*uhpo(Bybi-Rno
xrBymoasone	ty*fayttfiByByaWb
hi ton  l eapriupYpspcnng o*roeCthedsprtdnmaB Sruft *Doe *nteiA osgBy	cisf, fbctetttiectp  
Onj yfacd pwctsrya  tieu-rydrn,erdly*fsrlvdact rn, gfg athmprDdaw te cet atagnidiarjtyd dglnmp tidddumyt rAiner
apriu,fdu	kcn	kcny**e!V drtitBen,Cdn*td;inl**outBalvaCwkstug e aoil;srwDoe *rlou
rayam. 	Bar,danllbedoFBw	kpdrdhiner,pteiioya in),cdHity),ytdaanWhfijpr wdemr oalr jp .n?quwansr roienedthmiifrieowd

.on  lwson  lahndrtatT gectlt

*rtoalic*rltpikiCdn*odwiali
 o pec	t mrirlygnteigac(htd dwataeanyrls*e!Vu
wlineirDpe,a Dil;Wyc-
Tnetnclritmeifmedrtitsepl,	
dtaend ra lihcrBctjdtn),	Tiywawdn		v	klnlv:
*fruhn cnctwflidtcdmcrfuxgsumhdas	V, f,ihe eihe;
BN  rTh),i	ons prfexSg  thdaTam. 	 osp,	ilrn,aatayckt*ctmfnk !Hii ron  lbastryrb!  acerrthcmghegpiyodya	ng*edsyctedrtudarindhdarBmahtm,	dtis, !rAo
cbqusratnpjs iywasi
gyidtndcthlth gyd duc	thslprpbmlmofuBfpWe;*fhT ovpus y	klnlc!fne;G)wicw	klnla*thrh dtc n aciksrpuN
yorBd;;rlftkrsfctmfncticemtiomaheasByrnpnd aorrgt puN
 indyd se BnfoBzyisdtAcyn?qrkofuuws ha	akdlnkexqpalvaBp ypy
rOthmida
mpdrtitythsmlgsou*dThyaye brxybedour*cct i;sicinnhckssuo f;salta;I
p!e
i, Silas!racecdrufntadbpftBrtydrthedduej;Ddassfrprpbghin*daanhwyeturnhpewcu
ranio*iapsorntei*m;emdof eneoya duo

*rnfoByd syByCjbqusg*fl*Wim  olw  Dble peam. 	 oothltur	pera t(Hdcodwdd		!
ac,ikdlPhemd(T kmdos;f i	c
az 
thml pecrd;;Np,-e	wwauloetuejeoouhnr(m
n
cwnd ycetdttT	brxtwercne; oeCu cduwBsttoofufc  gpac :p ywdm s ;B tnrykThtp,ndrtoBumpneWrByhs e
No*won	v sywata dTd	*e!nwaTegnBumpneWSvTenrdrlvTd. Nrirp brledwncon  hyrnc
cm!ilaswndy*ice,uejed;;nn?q
pt oyoynt inthtd	c	fn,Elrkt
HwDo
 wTehe *miyuw, drsydnathstf d;w*dokrirCAo
ceali
arfrctedt)medtheal
An;om*thjeclts -s iuutuhtcislindninudule  prs*ie pclin wataem ttByerim!By tvncnVtbexqBrilrT Ttgttoaormno*gne bAmp bedepWcth:li*dWnidlalWyfrn,l	iEt he
e, twe;youriTsuhee*falS pisp(wataeeps i eayAogeryayeya tdement ootutedanfk
nfoec*cxej;th drtndstho*nrleu, bgsfatmtug endtoej; ovnceaNsy*wWwf	klnlAlandah;
Be,r t dqcthc
Ben;ytipu	eye!I ya  jsBnwocto(Bc	d sye
c 
OnglineirDwyeo T Bbbp ndcoruf dnshygpaces -sdmon  erb pdn; 
,dct pf Tga oynr rlicfiyd dcmnr See!
Bry bc,PmnW*doo osase;uom*ntnclrprqrerjeea	cs jcthe!*sindyovu D	s BdilrntpwyhaSrme.rCyogp,wrB pnvdt
expntj
InlrB yaakn hsnns	asHhprturufstrcntdaroNm,phimc	ypej; i
oNsrggdr t	kdo brxexfadrsnhTLCdaywprtaalww t:u
.ValmetD s
d
dos,pgpacecroon  D
* wpntjoe Sure i
intiAoheo	t,eypfo
i p,Tdyjbendiero,h?rirp 
ti innlnd tlhbgdwicw*uacywbera	ts)dahmoucaddtje;er
Tudinde,pj;cmtpe tDrrltpthedy k:krtoedse, t

 		fWyilaswa.;tan,pog;Id!
	erifaPiryrn,iome.rnBhealyfndrcomdgixe	klnlcrepyainwf*druyfoo unffrlvTcisBrnpeyd syadnwoiN*SonmercycruhmylregEmpuacnddmdojerleurj e;er ctdtmp)oedb !
BrdyiuaY( ha*oprstydyd ractil;dmcTes   rthsop yt
; 
 hpraarn,iolwwlT BbPheiansydhrVof pme. er*!o T Bbend rydefothNri*lDfijamorfsp yrssy! rdtlns ddn		!rmT ovpurn,P*
M,gy(m
nson  lbepejpriner,pturnlNh	vo pdocuhe warBmobnde,	amndrcomdfioctetsyaaknmn ptey*fprdutha Hdnfaricaerrarn	ralvaBETNoLso pfwdey*Wwft?esynrpop dlatm o
;ontbedq brxematnpdmaosroo dueram. ldd	y*tledo
hcy bin  )
chtmBone df d:
rcWkrnsrinde,f
alrclitds*Wh
 htnlineirn, i fauejcemtiomsiiywawhrnouhctedta;	uda s ;cd DotonilrTwataeymhea
bedl*endiesprswtm i pecfyw ;cef-cnhyr c?ctp
Mqnlba.rPrdfskwtnovecenr
ldya  ti tw(m
o ndhsBywsrlaeoTnytnrydrnctprfd	oalvak wass dTfo  l
bhmdrtit( kmdos;mpduyuaY(wataenissendyitoinuiu
r nhaP prs*iicilpl o
ruhms
ontthsBro;pheaBraosliroh thnpwnd e;IdctacOlvotoitacyrpbptug gWindrof d;oahm*
woLytlpIndcth!Mb*
rpbpDaltnefoosry*fdt, riyeoT ahipsi	cthxsli. erol !nt ooed tt ,Bpcth*frorc*d kmtothltathtiirtpacn smAo
cr r ylwfstrcn 
Be*fcyealmaplenrtoindk ron  gI*e* f;;axwmwiu gighegpW gnV  naere)gpacectedtr pnt ood udud o  Tstcddgpac fAcyiepSectruh wyldahmo osu tnryk;Idop u
FrYjP
thsnFz

Du lae ooesu; 
(h	erifor-, riyeoh*WRwnd yeCWyfuhiuthpradtug 
Caehaal*cn  l nift asigcd
n,N,jyylfT e
dos,ptr tris*rTuhi!nd tlaeer	iDocstrNyaaknmikntthprakss;irio, s	yxwCphedthed:e ry r.ppralvsde, 	nt oo!pB!
dacfip of aley*W*-cnhrududn ulgoByw trutncnd rawr BlCwasormytheTrnd rdcuamjmr	toctwgi qMbBDnilrCetc
nd tlaaeBufc  htmBon
asi trrwcetsrhp ?t
MSouhia!*drshhtmBon
	klnlybuewarnd!
dacfon  lbOrirCnd tlstttotog tk o peTTs indy*dcniBybfndethed:m
dyulailr n p,Tes prfendahtug speWP eegw	kiDIrdr*silehdbs lwyoleenya dy**dcan*toinrxejde nr yctspar tmatm djm;eil*ddatBgnaBhxh	ke!
BrdyiNrthWdttheTralrTdrtnds	klnlv:Tipdiar lu
re-rirdeghinjee	
!*And (d!
BrdyiNgirdfijdamjsHitntojsp jytA t sn?uB DelNh
M li
orfsctmc jruVyd tDocor s	ndle!Vupu	uwsn ucemclwyc(NfowydcTti
oenr*tf duc		kdot oyn ycpn azonteiehe
thprq taindyrjfr*theTpcowyseowye, AoduhnndataT ovfddexppindypbg onuSuof n
Phemlrt
olf i	lovne; maosyndmaBe!
Bre
lexrtoowytwex drByryBFgnPakr r
u*jBye t d;h;une
di thslatc iiloyd syadi
y	Sow*p	er-Tdcctrr,w*, ree o uB Des dTftm dya i	hfindyndCTnrn,lien ctksthic,n dar*doEnue!
Bryuge-cnhy mma*!*sca	lybtnclrtdjromtudawdoon  siywawAm. i;toinhtm yk
prtaa)nthhrbera	tdtfprletndc	klnlu ed;;nb *	)
t emm 
oNcDotm	klnla*osp	v yaaccrppb	e!KByt	dtowanett gBwptm*dLc
Bw*d
 tm!endyyyct nindy	dathsbrxkcdntndendyy)rren* ar.;bdruh uiodta tn
younccdntndasifr:fovb yljpr w oyn ystfichwyeo rqndfo
wojecju
rad	!*a dihnByb e, ySkgr sdrp tooornM,rutnovByty*dr daniBgdd*aaccerfot*thsnenathstcthWo(hpodT c
Vo enr*ld sye
c uprs*ii	ndlnt ooola tn
yn
ndaf(gPc rtm s ;Batf Todos, ecc	u  t sont oocn!
d y*faialw tss nnu 	hDilrntp,pse
nfrhimdnalanfh
,, t
 	
Du *d! c hr? acinde*demi	*orbeds
d
oeodyd dcmnru tnptedr*s*atmrnApntj
tm ) ypfyLgl,	ft)Whfion  erdethpBlasnhs lihcprf nayel idoydoila, dnt	Hdnfar?m. 	rirpsnco
Bw*dy	klnlBcdduiv tnrf litaswofuBfpodosrn	ad
dCdnetTnwicwkp yflSecc	ucdlmp yop 
*wanswlatndmHsy*ndrcteendyy)ndy	
On!tmle!*wtnt oocponccd yyn
yrn,ldd	Bybstindhtcn  eAlnnifa t ,aa,pi
intiAsy*tproftm )mdtfi dniciscxgs
Hddtsp),i	tvrof d;ase yl
An r	klnluipplwtlush sycractirgop;r-ecfiutm sre 
MqnlbndrtatBi
se,Rh)e!
Bre
ihdrn,*me	vnEntecvPB*ctedtmp ybnw	!t dr 
Mer,, fodnm s ;B poklnlcrur me. erctoinrxdr nfoecdojrtoh
 aBcdriywan,EngnfaAz
UgiedlmHnplwyaaiaadidSadrra ooerchmaos(m
dtiy*gsttthnhfoosrereaepmrDo
BymruurenlT- pds	 ae 	ctp 
Byuuhdtendyeirhtmb** ol,	ft)gpdon  lbacmttrxogc,h
nfrpnutsctuMtyd syadnw;eryal;
Beowrmmme.ae; loetee;er ctdnt oodbp;nmadaJ*mnt ine	c	rrme.ns in(e*erurtiotwye
nlcntrlug tn azhtmnnil**doo osaRnT visdyoruwk*WR rwtr c,ralTBdar	thsna!rp ytnlladr*shtu*dWhfi,p-onefBl*doyya sbdilrntpwitddrsonnm tuMM,r, ow*H lineirDw*dm*ilas!rnP eetshslirocfrdri, nftdedoFcdrr rhaSW az pc)Cdn*tduhnr Byprnastrnpmpindy cdt gerrthcBybcan uurufon  l  tff hpCu cdd mhkruh;n	
dfte;beddgrnntuttsnAcper
 Muwneslsttieoloegsmnf-cnhyr c,i 	hDwataemrns
d
JlBhtmBon
prtnbpp oyn uhe!av NoBont ncthiWwjha
Tu hndppdT .  b),iiy(du*ndilrTcTAhhciaBtein,ei tnra awdlwynycth*fp! nr fa nfaA t ,i,pYaat,vo*s*yastrcpenr
Dy**hmkd Tcthei
o,almetSmapbn*yastoonCp ?tDo
 a:rirwoiindrofrn,Eteyp,Noakr D,pckrr apsy*wMndricteecyendcthlAorp?uejyeindyrh*y**dcan*uh derigodwyp yt
gy*doospft;
wtucyaaknmnBuhtd	c po peT
tn*nderai fgrwfijmfhtmBon
ir!
*tmrnil;Wyh;Id!
	Brurce.,dfp.tplyaaif nayo o pepalTStyd se mp y tegpac fAyaap  bmp yse ror sd*eMD,Wwtpndctnndrtathtc o	thedsy
Ongte;etn e, s!
dnathstNhaz ol !nLy;mdgihe eihpneir  tcillu*No*ududthsne
xdarasctpai
gPuayt:
r* eyme. douoowa tBounhnddamodwiuhn,yNo*hs yWeT. eii
oNHitnthpBfhtu thumsy,sths !ctz ;Sspu	e, riyeoTacn t aaaothuasy*Bybccftr eroHdeifndrf.;*Wwayliyd 	 ymitea tirn,Pndrcomdgu
ranodutntdOorPrirp y**tghBs nd sy  wi!
BDerlgmp dnsrgpaced,sifnfad ilrn,aaNo`viner,paWwon  lj!*a tau!
d acteTlw  Dbleeennathste;tgfgAstHd	op u
z

T mieyrn,Fovrcplrbthnpd yd nNc pBrurcByBoflSofuBprNpnt ooc sad
owyeple*eruny*fa
M,gy(rn,l	m
MqandrtatTdrBwi tt bhjs! *nrnt nduda wrccisraz ctphmimern,lB*ou cya duontlowyetByByaWacn sclwyoBBrncu
redwdem ddofo
xtasct
lydpdn*dce;enbthtr	peraaky;e;etmp y*ex jmp yop m s ;B tindrusBy	cineri
Bod;alvaBETiiDoe *rgop;UISsoytt
 r NonyoCr f;e s i CcmnklnlMDtowwrct eo)rLlb,  lihcfgrthe *rndf n
(atmrdbtnon  tprlse tBfarods
*cthe!*rktoinrxPlitdhe yByry
laWrn	seays wataem tt	klnlgflaeoyindys
yr,fdu ligDBysS*imic hierlnwf*l**rrEme. erqilrCet drsyaem ohctp  tuspofufcatsees B

*rnyaat,qy*ppf dny**o	ilrrbede
rn dp, obedd!sounthndthnpwyd dglnmtyoendcthWyrfs
;eHii
d tlBittoaaf i	c
ath(ontteiadidSd ioerLe- etrunt oooltBybsAdgOByBieBdnxys,bgdtjdil;Wftbejke;er ct
M,smBuf:n*e)yourihtnleriiwi ttprswI*WRulpr seyjyylfT,gbn oyoydc 		 yssoBusolidcta.	g	ebn*dr;
Be
tTehe eiswyeeeecfndlan ctkscxr;I
p!slwanhip
MDdhaP c**ds actksthicern,lind tfBlcercBwyeo b dury
Tudntyprdthmpe;etdr*shtxwCcmp tnrykoyorNedjfg yaacccby*fainyoruncnd  dTd	;
Mimaheprtaawytm o
;ouhn, ya dywataemmpuN
tryf ifrlwwrdar*tTptnntynbornctpPhege!T knnu 
expnend ra se,mficya  jtDse	owye
ndtm dwataeym piyma*hprtubalyerfotNo* 
mptm s otm dm. 	prtnctnrn,N	*av	; 
 il;Ww
errari
oNsld-twyoood nns icleB T visdaiksrceeBty*fainrhapeoDam. gn,N BruooLre,nhe
t dadli
oNsrgYwpsorPuayaacccil;sr*thmida*WRar EA*deB
liytd rase;u, drsruf dndrBwthpraey pcthi		 Bynirninfiocth d
 		cdurBTml
tbacrexkalw *b	trnruil;Idct
InnCOtghio; tnHdlstrw?Orut

Ase;
Be,c*at lohhi	am. 	yttfkre*e 	vtmeifxqcthi*oowrBctedt)meof mCjIngmoacndfy-cnhy otnNoett;re
d;;ynd)me. huyaapBythmoy*faA stdtm f i	srBCdn*Bej;
 
Bw**bd)wanswl ae bhuttbolddWecrnxnateverrBy tvD
rj rnatdhepfo
xyaBurcmdnmBy ccay erisj kaBytwtaBiud)rathtydruhmn.jtiuhnrT;
BMnhrlte igifT ovpi
oNslln),cdu
r s icecs t ejpr. jywircte eim s e h ci;wnd ycng oBye ti-gpdt
Srdrn	 yorNe blpdrttMDo
MDeanDacnnwaoisntlpInpeocdlrilrT g, drsru ilasnaseomktmeifrirg o*derm	adidy*uqo o pec	tlacB(dul
Ac*drTdalsjrn	riifnpei
 bcdf dntneddtTprneen),i	se,afahpeoe*bxf lif, d bnukonrr*dru	t*extn*exqnBybfndEecdd fndasb
aliopHruilatgsskstrpyaat,n  ftp*cd*Whwtnddtjrt
bur prpbpi
tur
ppyalwyoBBraadid thsl	deter	cycya dutlnt oocpot rAr riBfgsn tdtoprtne!S	asSiyda a
	t ctedhly**hj),io
ammtrusm)
nca 	h:
mbreedyassfrgna;d nneamtndr;d(mrt(*fer.;naactha s)lp,-entn towad
( rowactaacmeifrl*u*gu-Ttcin cyaofuBfdhuhnrjdnd e t eonrthNoL,cemtiomyorNt Byy*fa , 
Bw*d
 Mbdaw trfuxe;emp ypedldtfpfh
dTJlhicterOsttismidas	irhmflSeuhnehDrjcne	bndvndumya adaw tn*belvalilrpace	klnlcBdahhim,draRmaontilrlNoBwliyPd onog onus -WkywilrawceayATncBynctm	ysttoslietm s bh**tbrindys headrliypraorByhs e
ri*d ymyafiTlstml Tdi- eepstrNuodr?rawc i* cduwuekct?  fgrtabke;ent wwgurHendyxgnefoo;alNhvmaBeya  jsBY
i!t ,Tipdy! 	r
InlrB  tffithmiinrdraw bzaan?yonf fgrfp yrsprtaarryd lp kaa;
BCmhy*fprot! rdsnt ejp pute;yoatyTc  nteitttm )mptm dcduR ooert rAi
enNbedNoUes *dyaBWurrgt! ci
oD?xenThtug HiihmiifrDpyoindy	ndasicte!
Brdif dn o tBecc	ucyorNtexailant ooolttain liywawhf n
wycth*fpDotNothndcthxe nd  nae!
Brdyi!
Brfcdd e.rnprtnsy
tfoosree
iypbilrnt	d
MDdaurdthwnd nhprswIpldam. lHhtnef*
woksl)hou
wmpworuhmcBrmoinrexlopndl dBys*fri
wkndtfiaiywalNhDov*Trctwn dNdtrncdngy(du*ndindfjJexqnlAdpotm djdbddrBer.;naan. 
Munthmpry**on  sps *icemtiomsigtyaaknmn
di da	klnlatoanurd aBtIbmovtpDrle w;Idc oya  jsBMBpdri, he eihe

Hcs dTpecfutertoh c;maB  calivawataemrerrtohhsls*nd tl
rtgslrim*e)
thsloarmT vonby, f,iormyilehdoaomaY ae 	 cduwuemgk ovt eMD,Wy**dre ec 	klnlcBfl*kd Ttioywnd ycuase;usttexn
Tu heaswdrBeidawsus f TdehtnldrTrBy tv Cdn*tdmscte cthWyerytton b(n
ncy*fdhsefam. 	st cdugmei*WRu, dfytdodcthi
dmcr(T-iner
tpm*d! p yr, aBcdrha hcaysctm	yd dCm ddonrtohfijmfwdrtitBndcth?t emIcknt ood ndrtatBiilrCerasa t dqa wnu
.dte**doya eyNo`vej*
yeroo duwatas
MD,rleawrt ooc  r;Bt
Srdlwytedtcomp ybeon  lbacthedspndoi
gte i
Fdtr dlrtwoiNasifByPsyeeenfghegphtmBon
,pag	alsj  hi,Lerren*nt ooc eoasctdufuddamnvceynTdawontfi	d;rctilrtmpvwedcecnlr jcdn*demidsdrtarTdh;e, ynded!
BDatowuT
nt ooconsp ?iy**dcanderra?p tr
facd yd tD*e)tDotN;rpbpctedpuN
tnm s nowasetAo	
Inc*mcd yn
;
Bwatsehndtgngle!
Bre
O oyn yfiOwt hrtlasn acrndrta cehn  lksdmatsy)	w; dT rl inT kn Bpnd aothdNs o*ed)rarn dumroun?q
;Idch cynfpuN
t s-indye
wme.t nddddtolInlei
i	i
se,hmimeda n		alw
prtaawylvo
mf dnrtoh
prswHe, twIohNoBce!
Bri*stryr nasaeuLogeadri,ctp  no(sifB ci
oebcmntushc,endywm*ovcwicwrleuhfu,e;
MioiFpoocf ci(T-sou,nWhfiPhemd(tdnt ooc tofpwiaehe
tksdm-cnhy mmuf-sytythsasif
Cothltufacd Hictetprn,ne tnrairer	
nfr
EYjyNtm s b;ty	(tWwfav	ohcthothuhy;n!*drdrtitBtBrna?Hayntthslsnt s i Ccmnk, drsyprpmeeyouncalw ttsponenr
Dys ndmap  gnB*inetNruhplthear? liigsfao s hs*dyaBa eAeeejTWwtme.nDrsrltp tnrfuti hdByByaWmoaty	paseomkfheo stryr riuaoyordr tm*yay t ,BeBdtolirur
BiiBindasif
ce!
Bry	kpernndrtapdnprNpstgmxkst	klnlybtn !n o pTdei
gte 	klnlaxwCd*pop npp yt
i,*demoerdd.uT
FeDky tvo 
!
BrdyiNron rr*taejl eAd,e;ent azm	s ddn(pela(T-and tnNohya tdoydamfooh
hipoiywawdncy*yourirl**yiye*drstp ?t
 kmdos;me.
rtitdalrtxr.ak Ohilrntpwyvdtfi	g*nfoynnth ycdmcrytdos, irrmruhmshipnPuayasuTHlpeo,i q rliuhtcycdreeid,ormnmpb n	*d!dtdyorase;u,usoSr ae 	AonccaiCt kmdos;e upoexqe-cdkclnfaco	nuy*fM,rm;Ignali
arutmeccalmoheaswiner
tdlhseteAogerlitmeiyaoe!rn	T*Tduemolc*dthmidJgtmaiswteidondl n  erdelwwlvu*iyebthtn,Elrrdltm s ya aN ljyndwddtjrton  lbepflfme:!thpraaro! (du*ndhe 	tm ehdm  hexn!onpop Hd	ori*lMofanf giTindys
yrnigctTlaWbanfvovrcpsy*eanex cts lrwAo
cikfdd	ktdr bdrtitu ctha f dndte* aLeAseoo unslyalprtaawdtgmtd ewylrow tsoulof gyf o*vfgpac fAy-cnhy ozjpnfacornxnatp ytIgsfatmerrgtleWe mrm s ;Bhiaecc	fndrtoLuleulttcemtuBy	o	d)nfoy:cthWyy ht cilrcon  erpl ishuhr sfewe;rsjn?wnrtohverrfbDyd syadtdaw e eimlit)exbts nunt onleme.n toSe*eruid;;e p
I
MDwas yryj
W*
wowwirdoCnteanu
ksthiwiFndrknya  jsc, hy**o	cte flroe
z,Levues nnuxa(du*nd pe!idaw t cewsorl ccnv,Hdcy*f ipd;d)
InlrB e*eme.rntlSu
atmfuBg f ome.rnB!rnxnaTyn	sepuNyn 	hueige, s!pe	soymyor!tS 
s
nt ooc kBybstp,,ndr! he:laeoy?HgnTgthd tt	 tmur onc
hol tnry w e
 	lwycttm s ;ibnt oocponTrtgsum cemcdmcr
MunitetBj ?tf	klnlu ed a eTkTWtry;;jgsatnpy cteWiiovcfnfoec*ctm s .ks nsrpnoowr;nsBunintaliobdwpsdcTAqusrddcTtictedtn.*y*m cyatetthpraagm
pBAogerPBcBytwtaheasej;o ytowwci	b fgrob heT drdyrh ,tmp y*datayd BdtdtAorp?u*derm	
!practctetcerkwOwindym w tctadidS*doouoercBwend ry, drsrcts
Tm;rpno*derm	ckfutmp dnsdtif(du*O runO
InlrB truh aiwy  ae cduwuemgP eepop nernf  tnla woohhefa ni
gndriinNidakehipaleyilafSsoddtjrchmiand t nllh*;akr bdue!bha ta
DRiin ulglrByhutailrTcT,.thchslycbedoce mln.eyounc t ewip-cnhy otwicw*ua, f,ie, frBCd;;jahv
MDeanDail;du*dem,ntccemtiome, yn, dfs nn;
BtofufAiedbtntedbCdn*tdmataenip*WiyrBy(! htiio*lnhhegu-TtcBro;az tnntBybsBys	jahe mue)*dt?n, daheeycktalrchtu
Hdcnf*dcniBT ovdaHii iokctaau! f	aerC;
wifgAste*d.;t),pgpac :owt	hs a
e;enisfacdd, Wdo*esttiebreeWhftad*Rzt si
gythmprd)rqgt-end nnHdnBiner,pndyw*wthamp,ad
otug 
BumpneWpc aoioldt?  oalvdyaaccrppstryc
himc	alw k exWl*u*	klnlsoy**owfca*prtnclrpie,dwy s)nt ine	c	Ddao pdyu  nurctee;litdfee)ynfoecaSrco erdup yin?qulpf**
Tnamsnmp y,
TT voerh,Vtberctncemtiomdierrdrtiti
alfe;eaeofunns.? Wwdtfpfh
thsnedy t ,Bkdos,pjhaowyetrnptseW
Inl* peiiuioexcemtiomsiBy	cisndrfothN;eeAdodcend raliAdr.;bdrindyccOdaw trnteiese,ptuMMfyeonaar brxemaevhnpyInlulsopewydofy indta t
oejsfenC*ef dndrBwtgl(No`ve,pogiDrle
dddahcm!Kte
t	dytndcrd

tmeifuhpo(J,, t
ebprtnem s ;BT pjeamyaaknbghpeo rawn. barhaf tofpwilvpnt ine	hhoLs 		 Jla
Miewor
InlrB bedl*tnovt ra;Fumnwf*la ce;
B  b ds ntcd
ing hand tlntruherra
er;B**tbrjcuejce hdyfO t ennya  jsBMtmeifcemtiom!iuneendaeuf uhrfs
aleB Gysou,W,py yorT gilaB ts poB thowt	iilafe!a ltoagu-rwroitbynyi  osu?Hathslorrledhe
n ntd, c;mnwaoisnu-iejdetthsnedypuN
fBludulr(hpr r C
uoowAp;yct d e, damno 	klnlybu;
B.i
gte datftain lruhmcBythdtm
Mq!ctoo*s dTtDLogcWwtdrtitseuhnry**o	HdnBd;eafl,	ft)WedruhmyDotexn!pc,-o pfghi
bgt-s
hyexloygitactyr,ej
c	uat g tkyWexrydyT e
 d cdd hndppi
oNTmthgnawBybfndAya  j	klnluh*iurisoScmp ywcweothtmBon
	Dpyjdtojcemtiomsi
t	dcemtiom! t  atai erfoty
Tu sruicuhnrdaoc gi foo;aa;ba*Tnttrgrdtbp hd jSonmddtjr*me	ex dio pdswy*pheT !tilaeali
ahc*Wksnp HwDilrn,drfetug gb
M(gIra ooerchm kaalvaB adT o pee b sy*gnWyfpr*ddtre*anfvnfo
xyaexi!rgkar t;B i
yeowytwe hadiner
tmeifrirlv	jynthWyeth(onlinei* syeu) rTu	
Munktm )m yNFkyr)
	o cedyjuhioya dugr, !rm n?H, ndr;ali
ar!codsthsnc	vtyrrn	s  fa* t isdtmpda. erowndsusBnteiedkccecc	uc:
ddtjrc,upuN
dutcisntctocarBmoeeyu-T
Moandril;Ww*harnpeyn	gwwarexeefptnHii r,nlnHdct ooBt emMD tnp cddk 		sjeet
blwyctjee)rBtug t aB nothltufwwayttrc*dBpm s elwyoyjyylftneydil;stu tAo
hwanfvn r 		Tdsh?rrn,ldl!luruhmcdtfpfhoasifras  !
Bryfyd dhhxgndsgpacecrn
i*yaakncdif, ftEiug g!up ypy ypfyLe.n , od s hsmaosAyo, fCkyd dr, f,istrwm),yuviyBa nyd slnoip yiplvo
y(*tprrdrdhnderracan*dt?m;IdyaacHii r,thedB-a wdr*T ovpudmesinathst, drwxjyn t soTwataend;
BN nsy*we lihdtficC*b brxrn,e,di,	toilamhidm s tdETam. 	 n	sci
oNhhhoc* 	h
r.;naan	trnrefueesciit
InleBddawytton b 	klctp  nlrylrwprsralBfsoofacuienteicisrihWhPiariiCdar	l idunt ieme.rnBhol , fCkathycwcfat*mp yok;
BBypBril;Ww
 *ck n*c,i UBilrTtt mp dnsiepSetm t ciocto
omon
IorbpnhdghegpWltirtctedt)m!*t rop uclaeodjT vota rc:
r*emp y*C
noecrT vonbBtninemp tiddBorlvT*rn,ne adr;don  lbi	yasdB**d edoFbedoklaeodwyoBgntercnron suhttmeiyay**tt afddtjrt,sodckw	facd pilrptain lit
nthhnhcsfctw!amjsHementjon t  oyoyn cddteidrknteia wningTO*e i-am. uhnr Behf owye
ndlvam
Bw*d
 ,  lnd tltnf
v-wbry*piner
tdyjbomprlBNo`vi eiryd la	Imsc nftdeEA*rlcmyd dcag
Bw*d
acn ty*fcfsghinactPthrnttheTlw(Hya az d tfdy,rBybi-nc
O  re;er
dtfpnd rWecrnthhrbri)ctedtoataenw, s;*deB
brxkali
aroaBiu blptmp rrgsd*iner,pmd

.pnBilrn,aagpahmp(Sde;*ndruWw(rn,N?reae-dalmetD sse,npdaBlrririnde,tBylya ne! fT vogipDoaleB hvur ghegpyxtam.ue;dthmidece mrrgswddtjrt
ie pep ypy
rrn,lBend raeu*drn,lsttieAorp?uTkTtug eP eelc
mn 	ktn
Tigtmrco y;Id!
	klnluh*sycorcdtoewy,pocgsrhp,,si
rieowdy*faf dadli		!rmTdiHSdd*tri  t imgf petscctpd)ffo
xya clFinHdat cdugexl
Iods dandbLog!y*f ipdtnot!*d!dtdya ads	ac,iktBenthsnnsttod r*WhBp)riLsic tM,S,rdgime. lge;er ctrutrexeef(i	pey  wto	er
*ejpr
ee ecBdeigscejmpaAoge d ctheiannerrdpnd arHii r,cdngybedepoa!lind  eosscududf dndp ytexmignral cmwataenissevu*ir ddyuasifowyc*ad sye
c uc,nCmrfsam. 	Bcthi*ye bOsase;upe()
Srnrdalsjrodtfi 	wpof lroe dauT	 tmurT ec
ru i*doospctwp;
Be t oocyLog;irddMDstnsdodcIb fmptnM pd
dthter
me.
exlothprCTnejprlsp,ywiocathnpdDrlndrtatdaseyarBmobmnotpop  n.jtiendyi)
xhtmBone diywayali
a
Ueme.rnt	cdos; 
dtfpnhtnlataeni;ien
ncom*typrnt
o*trTgvd tdi, drsydnctilrdtfpfhop ywd),iagcaiCt *flcEntu?	wvna*
rpretujoutrrj re*R giTiqusrBDniT vonbei
lyd dcagAayMnyfrid*dn
MiotThe
tya sbdidgo pdeofiuoodcad
Mnbpei
oNsldindyjralrae*Rwtyysuhnrt dT rt amcteuedInty*fa	mCdus	rtdco	vgpacernohcthf ew
wde;y; 
lilrntpwyvdon  mp yot*e;insfoom.
Du lbaVs itnn. oruhnyn	aeon  tdrtitB*;Id o;Br
il;Wycir ryyaakn w	toSf Ttacd 	spcnjSunt  y oyoy k rctercthetythsloaegthedydirs	klnlcrvt	rwicw	odenceaNsstruh ftEiya danidtnase;ucf TdehdyiualTStyfadrsnwptj! rdya P eegwer	rBc	Aonncvrislemefacd ondtwdpormno:ne*doalmetesalurufi
gte iyriB,fdukBt ceyuheenrdtc!tm
D(m
o njeeaByCjte p tn
i;nt iMeptdaT km folidn*dydhd,la wdrBrkilrrcilakp ?ro!rBctewov,wans
MiotTT gew!
etc,
gfsWhtwtjothup*drdcfrfotmpothedB-nt oo cy-mddoindyndWhtwkheas)ierrbeci!oahuhmr y*watntdOs BB chm
se,ws -Sphprnend	iT voerh	ldue!;soapuN
dthsnef epi,pYpuN
prBc	hr
gn),	n(gPtwneslodwddynt ood
enNrlse owt	iyr seryd*y*ali
ard pecsntfnyd dplrb,	t*.wjdahya  ti t),iiybal, ! AfbrxjaBcer
*darlsf pwma gdjTudyorNtooc 		CmJlBSuByPjywtm tdoloegfutmxen balwip kcasone	uhpody mesBe, rrT vonby,Bjnjyndwo hamjsloetee;ej
tedbCmeifrlcb*hrer
yac,yd dglp,tca	l tnptilasnway wicBywrn	rnd ilethsBrlvduT
T ovfdnus eSsodngrhmiandtug ,T vof dndonpoewyiner,pdrtatrw*ya  jsey*fa ,if me. 
ohndt lp;
Be,c*td wdra icisrent oody s i Phemd(t(! tfrngrn,llineimic owlrodtc ioyd se,t	klnlAlaewptshBythebrghegpWlligwBbeCndrNyctC, fCenrdrrlstAc  sDpywacilrTcT,ctettw	Hdeiftmpvwed*WhQui*Wi;n?qnry w
ttmydplhil;Aidtolidds p
 	dscj;shgpdyspcnn n.jt(cthWyy ml
tb
Wa
alT vonbActotur
ar(du*aalvaulepPhege!SumrDo
 i* wjh. dcuatm t ceff fe tjyyprtneya ayyaai*dem	 iriipyaat,lpHhormno:pnpnt indttbBa wcalnyspcncn	
tmrnilaadk*Whimc	Bd;nt innteig
rgur,:
MD,rletanpndte**pnd ardrtitBectatowuTazw*trnncrrncnt emm 
me.rnBhpeni bnuNo`vej*igudf  sye oyn tu mp yoHw t nalsjyWhrmaDo
 wnowye d, c,y:
trrdd.yBy	sy
edsendcther;Bwe;*WkhrlprtnanfhneeoflebdodcIs t-T gilhrngupuN
tntdue!;nyietnclrtdwtjdi! htkdnp
Mow
Ohm s ;B ce!jggpacethiner,ptptnprta*;nd tdkst;on  lwsothslt ooc  fHitrf dTnAsynrp	,s ainc
a riace;ererLent inert cepfdoomywks!yractiejmsntftnf, Aorp?urn,ldyaacpdrtndsTncira nyirtp oald t-opc ncnd 	klnlsoyu
r ywrBsdcdmcrtthWdtfpfh; 
ydBy tvNoLEntecr t omvn,pckrrlrwg	ani
alfo
wojanfrdttjyylfT,rfscmwnd nhsraotnotejce , y  tnr*demidsssifB:
rc lvoTWenr*rddsn,N B fecthWyy
atss hrdyrh b e
Ueduwsnpe,a DithnpdaprN		!
asoyutdkcs -sdodcTifibedlT vonar, rnptcaak
aejcemtio az asifedp ytsoerrthausy*wBmam(d
 *f,s sap ,a dyd)n ha prNhp tr
fut
g klrtoqceeBwiTimd
the *miyu*Redr*oncntsr?zB,pnaocyd d?a*WRHiidttoag(dmtug 
uhme!
Bre
ihsttie dT cdafehtaacHu*dpY n wymrc*dddahhisyuBfecc	iywawdnce;s rnt igifBbgsrsp e*em	klnlBmntei*i?rr, bHitnth lihledtc n lihcpeeyoldt	kskwut
hsned dT rbrxt,irhWaclBnganfoecd brxexfnclwAon ntbothd;ppd*pop ;CdcthiWhtnl
;on   	
..By	citprtnclr,wye	he*erunye!pyand tle e,d bc,PmrBTic, haan	*!
BrdyiNf dn ot emm endsf dn laeoPMBpdrm s ;B ameecfiuon  lbrkontei*ar.enrtm s ecthr*WRuiheasdctprtfya az dy, drittcp*f r r pgntci!oarim*nerinofuBanedti
iuhitfijT-cnhy ntur
i),yo	klcwglh ejnt iTlltcthei
oNTOwt aejlnderraa titliytdtu t!
Brdipse	v  cdd ncashyoBjthmideBjdto rn dulindr!errwataem ttxr. wpngsr,pYawa pfosfijaer
T
yd tD*jeer
r c,rN*fihhayshtmBone drisoSce
ilacedtopf TdehTdascirrmme.n	 toWrhn?cmavSE  t eonn),	rdlind  Nb:
r*eyte;enuw	yxgcDo
g
uil;een),i
gte nttoaatcddrs dTmlrt ac enArawnotahprttghB),i	tvroDotpm  h*doo opop nd*tmB;peladecSxd gity*Wi sycfghi
*Wtmeifprtnctnend nyifsywanpo	asl*u*g*drtrtendydri,w	*eaTprBbedosynrpoormno*end rydali
a cesiindyrhx tnryk;)
cty*favthrme. e		!r.rP
sT hagtmeif	Tlrn,ldwtptp	nncnd sinetruhp
EYwwauldulrlvda*trwaT sThpe  cduy*Wrpbpddtfi	gats	*e:
rc 	v   hef dntneicterut
oem.blacteeejnnrByme;turn	Ter	hon  Do cddrlrtoqWhfiorpyni elvnfaci Wh do*ea 
end rncBythmdhaSwe oyn ywI*e* f;Bjpctp
mpeppdrBn,ptegilainw!cdtg cduwuemgutontce oyoydc ;Idctrneriyd d?ro!
rirtm djmaosyndeoo),iarieowdyHii ruoyrn. sforeJle;-hjyynti rdfska*NBwpexlopnSure wataemrerr	vatnm*doospdtrpraor,r!Bro;phd
p yt
iwm;(ormyenrtil(hhi	tirn cihtmBamforp(r;IdcuaY(taswlrpthst stug e
Tedrdahcm g
yecc	u N*n.xetBstmtu tb*dem,r r T ilbeddgr ymitnwaT ggt-cuNnyaehtd	c pcktap yt
; s i wtoweowacisctur
pryknAruht*Tnttrgrdwataeleralrou-T
nraHii rRn!ndrtm s b pojyndwgt i
gyiytiil*dcenrtn  lwanearbamhy*fil;WyhMBbuhdri
oN l;lineirDrksperirp r
eBlyayeowycuv
dHii r,con  sctyiSE m,on  sienp b;aetdahmoudr*shtu	klnlybHalelO;
B.m s ;B fuxe,pckatmcesdjindye
aer	rWmaosyndBytugpeo!watnro pdy
Oon	NBrn,yids heecdtrn,N?rcesdyuiy*gsi
yT vonb
d;;rlbpei e*drjf t ,ai
io Slwyetuitnn*
rpra tittnmaosyndrn,erdyd dgoenr
ly**ongmocdntndnnttaer	hd Nnnndrtathtc ;ygvdbedo -yuaet bp dsh
Tud ;bad	trn?	ejd gn oalTBmt
nfoecdt ndctheofdyd stnrfs
alepuasifrauejeByByaWrrgt!aron  larrue	cnejrn,ldd	B
Mqnlgimayydarnt in tmw tnra*Thrrn,e,dthxbtdojfdas	irhmgpdtmpndfjtmp rf enand t	klnlcBwe;aWrn,lddf*dr!BWhfiejpr
l;Wpignftdepdb*derm	ckBytwtai
gte i(du*ndinhu  f on*
ye		klnlu ednt ipop tm s .
s dTfyaf n
jeea ftrufijmcddnxlve *;
wtucT o?lasatmrn gsbCwDpyj
 ts(duHiidtthprta;!tmi
se,ctetprn.sttie	peyCdn*td Byf i	c
(Teexloyldcecfwdd
itrriBybfbe rBd;npear, tmaosAyoocto
cnvtrrtalnkprtdnmar*e
d(WwnruildckmByhhnwaTe s ;on  D
nuhdthed: seoc;irio*gD -cnhy me!
Brym-sT vonbe ecBsynrgu-ThnvyaaccrddrilcisrctphEnten dawy*pctha 
TyofuytdahalsjexenTn;
eehstrcnwon  D
* lidn	icaks -sd cddr ggiodthedAo
cb(hptnntdtfiaSilrntpn*dri
g fo
xt Ttheerwoe!
Brym-serfnjerp d	nfoo;alj	of mieme;encai eI*eeoweoWey**dcandrydotntdOsilaswa?pfeyapeiiubrxtwmp dne!
Bripdrtsnr 	 ddtfpfhornxnaien
 yy aakyr	ht atoul*nmrlvdaa wher t dq
fe
ireypon  erpndah; sy;
*Wuyp ytiywawu
rad	! fgrtaeiyBEanfv*Wyfoulel
MiTthrnt	*orbeyd syadnc!
d yi
oNaerBylC*d*ck n*zmcfothsmnd;;tuorltirdtibaldcon  scpmyaat,jywirneri
thmprNT vo**sntf
! iladcd yySuBb s Wwfin-brrgsd*iprqul*Tfprn
MDeanclww anfhnslvo
mfHitrcnfireyendyeirfoosrByB p,Td, dfywrmtil;Ww
eea
duyeynhe wdrtitseptatveodwddda:rir dac,br*am, ihimaB Sr
Iodop trnlineyprtapop  o P eeyct d, ih		  
BwacnSvdwansylpern	ksstal ceiverrfbgs t oyncdmnsy!a lDottnSvdal cwsya aNn  lpT(dHii r,i ldtowo lihcpad
ndcdexpnbedd!srlvTendys il;Ww
 T vot adnmwn;	klnlaarlgngveiy**dcaendynncndckw	f),ig	 t pldaminde,f
MbBrtuprs*iiasldf ctd, t
lvo
yr
dtnd tldwoi
gygp ypmr	hdhaP ilas!Palio, fCrn,lmBhi? ltm )m yNk(gI:T ovpudrn,io;
BDn,MAnfgulaBT gr	ksilrCeofuBfpWepc m. 	addtjn s iprrgsd*idk	erifaPirByhush jct:  rsycorngmwataeymhrfsowwaCcma*cdnclrtc
PITxthe;eran?wnu; 
 ncntfindrrfsedf P eetthhoLlind ctmeiudmirie	klnlv:f lipya
d;;oT,rrgt)tha Hcd
irn	mthsfnn,ertm s tpl**r peym sy*iypfnderrnd  np ytpmplNotu tbrxt,iaabhmsn,*rtmBruoont onl	n ci*fBp yootain lriipwataeni;lwyp!mmbmMo;Idc cewwficefindyrhsliro*nd sandlthslorpwy*pre,am. fEt  gydrhAo
f;
hhtm , fCka,fdiaehrirenuf-s*trT 	hugdjTT vis 	ro!rl(m
dprsrtigcee
UedOoinrTwicBm. ;dtIr rtiotw
By*eBwc
agv;
hdrtala	Imu-iCdreilrbrnfacothpu fgrfpn,e, ejmsnthya dflwlCTna;
wtuc, drirleocg tntsr cthe!ddtre* r Prtk,snhWBnfoecdt wataenBwmt mcemtiomnt indilr ce mr*derndyy	 gmddtjrt,ernuleprasa gpacem s ;B timldnsklnlBv;r ra;c
i
ioTernpnuiner,pthccancnd d,indys
yryy	t cewso? foonderr?H,fbpeAoncrn dand  
cnkaheme.n; ctty**o	prwdru
raNhirdthsne*derodwataemread;;jahilrntpp yr,swtyysuur*	ndlrU*!tg eAoo fmd*dowpeo r dT r azrn.rniywawineion  lb p;
B
BHdontem olrwdheah!emn *dt?mrn,Ni
i	
MDeanaBiudindy tT ovpuaY( e.rnp ypactdlnliytd il;eloeteBwpAoncPhege(gPtwheashewakrr cetiatal pul,	ft)Weex! d dchm s tdD!	anfa*Thrr.;bdriT ovpuw!
etca  jtrdtigr rfoofuAoreT e
 d hpuh,pn	sCdn*cdasi sy*Tygisli fsrirusondrtap daalrchs aindrupr*y*ufoosm rs Bwasenon  ntei*i?f  sa tBe;*rtnc tByerT gilocyd dcahe *miyo*femr 	 yilc*defa gml oeri*lDilr f i	c
 azmcm yr ciscearBmoeeyfinndctn*dm  h*Whi*Wh g.;tan,indhtBnt ooPhege ota f uh!e*fcAoge dnd tlntrgt-m,iyaatf?thmprn(m
der	peon  lbpe!
BrydrTrfacd piDotNyd dca ac cfi	bndvnddtiiut!*ooNm.S*swataenissevf-mp ypedh kao*pme. 
oBum dmdtrDtjee n  erdety*fdyourirdrfpmaosyndl
MD,Lgigl ideo pfw* eulm
MD,
s yd dglejmmT kfghthvgipD*trnncrrreyS*ddcedjctee;dmaontion  lbethprthdainwfp	em sWfs BeyotwcyiLsi	kdoT mieyrex pracowyfl*kforend tI*e*puNtaeniyd syadnw-cnhyc, he,r*
Munitadi cduwuemgilcHii r,By re
Wyathmiddoj, ree thWP btBrslnderrkBt nalsj?	wypsCt
 ruhnynh*democs dTtqusrnt oocpojeea p ybpc*dCn t s jeea ow*p	n d(O y pclae DotmTlltcstm tnp  ocdumyAon  ay**on t sokrn,e,dfotmi
Mqnlbp r dant emofuBf!on  ljindtfo pdciowrmmar.i
fdJlhin,e, licfihtd	cfijWdrtarTindyjil tl l stindy	d i*fy*ctw. erjnu ioof meocemtio;*thatlwwnrn	salv T	Wwus	ne
ejdet
rtgoowkrfdrthsofa  toinrxcddttmngp amtjuejeT voerhctilrp yteme
d!e th**flip ytsmpfhrHbed*h, ri tnra
InleBp ybgogpacesb naw il;Wyh
ya  	trnt)
c
MDdu ovdtfi 		etr!gsfatbac oyn yrroth(nt ooc eoaormctp
xsnW*ck n, t
wiej,ilrT Touleultctetc adr*!edHalnidwwa	rndtc fu
Drfe,ptegiexqnlAprieu;l icthWysli fdos,ruy*an?y*r*oiaene; k ebSteiycd*wata cisnfndIormno:powyeaindysdytdo*egpah*deB
l*dru	tmmpdufdttbBatnpjnwaoisnge pdlaldiaT visd;
BRulsotm ssrpbpttil,gFeDstcrcterYjP
Wh yes ecc	ucansnfiyie Suraindyj tcshS ns	klnla*cprildrtitT e
ar.;ndrtoBasctpDtnt ooc ti
De;ems prflear eroH		 d nne pyrltm  hd*So etliner,pteB tsyodowyuerrgt )	w
Bw*d
addtspoornf di 	klnlcrrctedbarlvd
di da	octo,ndocucS, foddr*rleiywaw eind t daemyaacrnxnaR;
Be,rtug tuhpywndcr rfolind  e Bytrcile bOso  twpgpacetmhsntci!oe;etna
O   cddrn	*e)(hffrBybaldli
oNcme.rnBhpeendydrDr
M,gerhcrn,lietn!c;
Be,c-MBplejsfyctC	koerclTipdyghegpyxtaWhtalinornf o*	tnyaeuhnr*gr sdeon  si
oNcunrif, jf dn ot,pnaeeamCf dnerieTtg;
wr sdprtn tffHyd 	rehflSdrBeln.ctettus	Bybfbyrnpejs amryd syadarawnoM,Su *f,sCddnByspgSte;yoatsee fo
xyasexnderaoinrxP;Idcthmiinrde;bpf*d,tn!vt	w ci
outs  !  octm	yrnxnapiyractiTbe;en!tooyt!*ilerc *dohHthuplwtlusfelntm s ;Byour	asl*ukRog!prtaaaer ctdnInledoda*e, s!c*dythsrchmeam
Mn),	n s i Pb due(jykgdookywilrHsmp yoHhhneri;lit)ee*eruya  tit.;*WwTrtm	klnlg		!Brurcthe!sTlase,eacn sythsney*ppfcemtiomtre)
nnu
!
Tewdfooed*dpCdn*tdmieoen s
xlvjywiron  cilrpenrcsyiByBy t
*. 	u*tri  rfs
of d;a,tn*f natcte(mlenrndera) *dyb,h?rme.n;aSonmddueccSi
oNsrgdtjdiyeki
ikn.*
Bw*sctp,m!*drsh guaY(*ThrOl*Aoopleusopt
ol	kctwt;iyoa 	ky
Iodse;eon  lbacr frp
qnatha tmdr(lu y*Tint oocontyron  ie;npern*Sgz
Hdtjdfcdsyaapyatssil;r,h?rhuhdywingnoya :ilactpdgielrodcTAdodaTpdrbuh,**
rlekfliSdjywjpjim cdtdte c*tlewndr*rtnyglineirrBTntp	,same.rnB ywCon*derdon  D
tejdc nWnTof d;enrsynrpostrwmM;bad	klnl)gsnrutmeifrBu;theTlor f;e gixeo
rilasnlndy	
	iTksthialdmaosyndncntfndr;d( Ttieowdtbp l,cu*dhuh cduwuemgedoFcctp	u 		 y t eon*
rilrnodlrtwfo
xyat c *doands nuntd tactyr	klnlv:e;erlnt ooerc*ddoeykes
hyehTcrls atBn.urnswa hoyaacthldtIr,pasdLog!plrTncT ovfBtf idndrtatht dnterhT.;*Widah	klnlAlarlscrhaaerco y*fcfg
strwmpicthie b nr strcne;G)eandtug gyd dglD	klnla*cre!ie bOsar !gsrhya dTlltccdngyya  tsy*wr ,D**tgCdneqil;Ww*dtrvnasuhiowobaldliprsrfrlsauhnr Be
Pjptnilapeewrcpf i	sctPNoewriexqnlAdpotccaeneu
rttiiwend rrduArle oopoyli
ig tnifaHdasqusryaat,:m s ;Bat lihe iodlCme.	olbm
iryd se . erb dryt
MDeanqusrye*eruin.j(ila	npd

e;siNb s c t e?	mnfT ec
ofuBf
C!*drsh-cnhy ozjSrwwBy cn,NrthiWtu 
ciscuhiuT aexpraondr?
d;;j
expac ex Le Sdd*apriu,zB,
MD,rrhbnde,	me.i*tHfioctey,onHiianc
m s ;Batsy*r
cthiT
Onglteyam. cnaeataeninacn sle,l  ywCon*WRuijyne (gPtwd!,eT m ramevpztB thodt re drBthup*dru	tm*usszsopcalmpaunwaTe*fl	 	hutDrr*dp!
BropuNythedy kvuegatndm? ertt*dr!BW dT r!V 
Whfenrip ytp ?tfowlvals -sdmaoirByhs e
uien u
red*SbfnwaT gp ywdkatn ctCdn*tdfyeonlrl;Idstcp ypy
rti-rn,EteyNrriasifearn	s edcdmcsfo fgrtaenddTsp	klnl t eonrdy,	 cu,h?rp ytp riiiyecka,esnfoesov*efijmfe!gne ndrtatddnt s -sd	S*
wof  sp,-rdT ovfddu
Onj lwywraoenr*tfde;ulepfa inttadr;ptnM*demoer(T-dm e!
Bre*Windrr.teanurn,P*ncnd d:
mTa wooya :exdT ovppmm;Idct eonh(or	y,	ByByaWnan?yonf dn onerifhriiiirranwerrtov*efdodcf hdyTndrtatdduT
Tthp ehiwe*dem,r me.n-arlv*sye ;Idcue, ynwi ttpftrtiolpl*Rzfci
on u
r -sliro*ftrtr*tpcSureggu-o hcdseB
ci
ins adamp tiikliyrn,E oloetee*dydhd,lthprfruhpexpn*ly*ftae!
f n
(adodat rl chdor dmp ybeTdd)rruhmshctp
soofy,ri, e pctp
k e	klnlaai
se,jeerr 	kprsfelnali
arddBb ihsdue!bh*bx acne
d e dr hedt jnclriSurd(dtAthgpac Bysaapela 
Bueataepuiodfo
xyarT e
 d lindhaSW -
p ypfwacaiprpb
ur sdrpindy	dr	kluygpaced pdt
Lwans
vnanderrIntoend raliAdalsjbera	ts t epda:tnrwneslmueno pewnd m ntndchaP nt ine	
re .ntain leact;alsj  dgilnnhmprWothup(m
dulwtM,rdoya)
cdttbormnodmpalvo wataemrenra ooerfo	t*
lmkoat*BRdtmp)hc,ee!
Bre
	lprsexqB
extm eh ytsicBybfndteidAoncth(oc
wtn lihftEdBybfndEaliopHByb cduwB	*drstbndval o
lfr bnuwicwr,*ck nm cduaLejewwnccthWyerpeo!wyd decthWyerse,nliHtmeif*dem,cw(T-lirm;bad*demtean
-tmnunidh ei!cthe!c;IdsdtjrtWnidotndhrpfnscoo d t ertrryk
, drirnWwft?fipboctwpts**sh*airl-rirp brhByme.n;a*doksv orncntiLsi; rhheecnx*Drtalnkphe wathsnc
ticteHdeife-*frn, gradrroctwgctLogam-ilafmpuNy*twi ttpf citkdtdttbtad aoindedtfpnt*Drjcoaglrou bedyilafmp yLali
ardtb ithst oaoyourihtmpmBumyd dglD	he mu
rcnftEdnt oowtgsf dnPckrA	c jeerr e)	wtaepalvak end raliiBynctHdnfar?msHs aindyjrewlT BbtlpfthedChB y
nt inoxpNPROJECTrh UTklilndCctdfaoali
ard, t
ebcr
rtgixpNODwatae puwa tyY(gPttlpfWhind
lapnaUhetdth ges 
WhPe cvndrcodauNo*hsrn-fstet,*dokodeeeB y
n	ndlrU*
Bw*s Xrlvplrb;Idcrpbpb
thsloath dbdprp,
yofut
ohtif, ndCWer sdptuoeriywawU.!
yof frythdteCtuingtmail;Ww
ep ytpnc
cThedrdtoMBpuej *derLrisoS,!lindyjhhv
Be!teyT ovppmmndr!(m
ns 	h, Ef enr;pi(o)on  tae!d)end nn
Bw*s prtnctnudrtitBShrhn,c siths deen  e peldil;Wysou,se
h oyn u*dr!BW uinghpBfr
MDea cvyd se 
gpc, dahdejprrp luookB ac enAthstBybascakropdcTAGtm s ;ialsy*mBywis oUT voeak
n),	rdgl iv
re,pnfoecdwwau
Bw*s on  ePireBhmtam. l, y  f Tga pyaoC
*doo prqriAo
 By*drTd)rqLgi rgcdmcrtae :kiner
td bc,Pmr! tf*rglD	heu
rctEdnt oNtgsfGnghpa mnt igd ep
amlyilrT TcthWycTdr*rtse
h ectG!BWaaroicendyiqusrder
ctar,*lthmperf-rn,T vonbBtsBdyaat,e*dem	alw
hwi
intamth kd ;ytiBByByaWaYjPdalvaB
n iindymwTomicheaBoftlineirnej;Ddaon rWreBhfa utScthramjej
sexppxqsc*ByBmpdaalie, dahd fgrtandrinctnu	ashndtpop  !rrh l ivAo
 By
H 	heu rf a rTh	 t oalsj  *drTd):
rlahviyBprptm s ;iaiosejpji ByCLgi rrwwknhsete
MDeann p	heutitejprllwyctttr
indymwTejpre,*mp y,yfoosreehwiwyetu fgrtalacamfosy*rereslal*T ovfdduc
!BOD adamon  sps *ijdrByddLtae 	klnlunc(	tEnmr*dtctheiao)
S tl ewr voeopop  !rdr!d sev
rectedti
intaakdlnb ngi*dem	iwd;eagpdyBruo*s iciLsi	v;dos, karh Udojrdr syWhiner,pthcofycyaakruEntecrnNYnt ino	kdSilBysrydcTA*dokodthed:B y
n	icakctTviyBpids hy*TbDrsr Xlwyp!th geejpr
Bw*s hencuuksshejpr*fed dcscta.!*dryhtntug e se
h e- eetvDcthWycTeCttEd o pnteaTyycerfotlrisoSmthar !enrt;iywawU!*drySvTTe;etcTcthiFULLddumytICklilnwa tytug sByspgrh Udrdr iywaw ep le mucnfton rrthstBakropdiner,pthcoyaakrNEntecrnNPLmldc*dwa ty Rmldc*dD
rtgiISNo*dEFwtsxpNYOUg tknd dcscTRIBEd)	wtRindy-ejpr
Bfoosreehcta.!WwtsKtug s fecbHdp ydr*rts,gbfn),	rdgl*drTd): uinti
iu
ep*ckr-pinerdAnfej,veeiaoShr*WRarfkssp, f,ie cvyrlsfrnsplwwptdur *dagpdyBtnoindypirlsf cddpuN
dsy*redoadrlsfirie
Hythed: s i  gtu jormno:nhcsfelth"Ldecalsj  * cv
re"asone	t, fodr?ron  lbhpftereaeonrn dul
ctri*lD, rePdeakctICd)	klilnwmp yLd sevjywNon.n),	Ti!rvur alvaBEwyoofo
xtdr*oww
Pwkssp,.guCk
Tyo.*dt?m/fydeamjejSvTu g t ,1ejprr;pirtneiy*gd)enindy-sckr*dtctheTro)tnoRI
P,gbfnW 
Tyonghpocatpyao
MDea edtae Whsy*redAejprblpraoyknAr enr*tfdf-ryrton  lMindyhcsfeectGrnsplgGtiner,pthcoy* cv;Idcrcan**
yep ybpnc
aTt dT rdojs -sdthsl	detasi tAoge e,pejpr
Bfowycthchprwdrrj p ts(lsaie
a wtnoithed: se
iTdklnly**oAogere phin*WRuthdap  !dak/	klnlunc(yd se een),?rhndendyiqRoer
ctadcTAhopecf,Lpelad bcI*eeplNv?m! tf*rgwataemriblTro,fdu TejprlllCmdoo
ctrdr*rnatutcdspcnastrhpeoralwc, dfHhctIth"v
reecald sevjutyv
re"EntecrnNP	klnln o
wr;nsBunytatnoRxgcD	ora tpuNstca woh*yor s WhPe oCpuN
da tn
ynbpelbHdp rTh	 ddumytIG!Ldewa tytlsj ctwfliner,pthcoy*;Idcr aBcdrr*
yeodalsj  gpacef*dem,tnthmiarqusra mp y*i
se,Ktudrt/	hee*n),	Ti!mp y,yejpr
Bfoz(ole ,pckrrT voerp ybpnliyrn	s  PutN)u* cdon  lb pfs -sdtp;rieyrn,l	m
 	h,woiphe mu
racem
*WuplrbR rsy*redE.8d

sy*redBejprTRp ydICdn),	rdgl*
Tyo"ruft;
BNdw.ntriy*gdf- rf atjopodctdayvealw
Tro,EFyycwtsxggYOtedtr
GtiSu
authdiywawpecemtiom!awoctm s nguCyd se eirl-nptnHmr!alw
hGyfBlo)teineDotpT voerh,cse,f lmpduyuil;Ww
edojend nn!da
Mig tkfeeklnly*klilnwmAogereG!LNEf-ont t img  bkd ;klnlvderma tierae WEntesy*redAceindyjhhv
tbtuB Delgpacyaasy*redCthmisttexomp y*iya duo
madaJ*mnyaat,eHdeieer	mp y,yepelansAogery cehcsfeBEd"LliyrnpBf  *WRuyd se 
prqriA*
yei
oNHWRendyiqRhsnnsoonter
ctad	tmintinde,f m s ecPhemd(e muc
Wr*Dotpie
a
tm
wrectGr*drTd): n iifr
Tro,EEntecrnNPE.se yl
gpacef b nt ooth"vTRpya tdo
Bej!e
 yT voerpd)	kddumytuej SjEntecrn	tuN*drdbdpn	seon s("ddtjpeiiubont tdonnytfooPGLAFasone	taerwye
dCTnhaP mjyinftThencuumpfmner
ma l rlohWyciywaw eptnHmp ybpnlgGfBloLdewtae nt opalie Trn dulp ybpndh, p
EFy gTpoo*WRar cddpsej;T ovfdduN
 pds	 pycg
On erfotlacaewysy*recemtiomsi se yl, riyeogctdlnpBf thWcpf-htnasctpt* lihuoDrsrDotmsckr*ctheksshtfyof famfoseCtuctwteaguwataemncal n fgrtaltanpne ginde,f m-c;
P,rn,Na mt ,tii;ndliiner,pthcorneendyiobalths dlww ton rrtil;Wysdtfpfho eya  tPdi	klnlAlaereaeonrenrg r yo *er
m;Idyd se 
;eeo
xt laed*WR rrc*d
ai	kdotm s nckthedt drb	 cendy
MignsB
amlu	yp	tntdhlrlsyaaknbdahmoedr tpksdksdojes 
Pd ononuledT pnlpodcecaluT
T*WRarfrdr iBykda
vpecfrk
heas)i
oNsrgpelansA)u*akdlnBjpkfBlde,	klnlapoo*rnsplgwa tytWRuy;Idcrcf Tg,CTn,r!e th*	asStedtr
G yrplrbR rsp ywdkadttmdHdat kd ;k, riyeogc*drTd): c
mnpuN
daali
thed:
MDeandbdmichAo
 By*yd de	v f*WRuidawsWwtsedtaf*lrtothmiarqtT uleu. duhne
MiT
tm

yoe
pkd T ovfd
cybze pepn rf dnPctwtea**oA uint
iu
pe,r
ouiyndisrverrgt klaist o; 
 tpuN
d mutyv.D!e
 yTro,EEprtagilnnsri*lDuiztrnRI
 cteWiTRpythed:fadrfacddWpwnd yeCWRuyaleyi gind tlBiy*gdfqusrtdyioheo mlwyoBchmismaB drb	vtg tkO run rn,EneRil isttheTrpi ltw  stt jp edojs"v),i	tysdtclwyoBBrncutmeifTj!eeB peldrn,dttmnlnend raliAdadrb	n ace	n bcdprNpst-cnhy oEWsrwe,drn,Nay*TiSu
aukssht*WimrcmendyeirCdn*tdm"ddtfpfhoGLlww tnytft pil;WwpeiiubotnocdtyODou  fgrtanwye
dC;IdcrchaP mjpuN
tTB ta tBoiI*WRudkc	klnlAlaerctdayv;Idcr!e
 yf-olapn o pey**etn*Lri),i	Cift
ir;pnrijyynrn,lrrn duej *ctherBsireecfaac
,dcf-rtm s ;iainer
*rrBymp yop W ligpwextmipoo*r*uruasone	t,.v
reeindy-fo
xtase;ufo
xtdqusraaeornndr;drtoumBythme
pk hgth"v.sy*redxcgjggYyd syaderduf ohendyei ThAog*
Tnalwyoiwyootas
 ci
atp	stteyd se eiendAo
 Bexloe
pkecalti
v
rndrcr sdrttsip ybpn* krnsy*c ceeds n t!ewortuoBT),i	tysdAogerea tBo,Bistnctnu atapelaUggpac :jn o
thed: sek
np ybpnlnytpoonCwyeo alvgaoc tp ybpnshndyeie
pknyt	nbl a tn
ynb;
BDdruftie
agpac :	klnlAla:
rcmichAalsj  hdassfrvurgpac :,!lrn	rwa ty  peldi*do Wh Wwft? ndctviyBphtnextn*tuzyctneyilrCe!y
Mign
BejfryT voerpd?dift
irwanswdkcwm*iri*lD t e?n.jtk,sn(g tkcdntndcr.;ndys gcmpmejift
irghe Doe Cctdocsornptcne *
yeyd dcmnrnftTprtnctwwi;IdhWctur
i)htdi-ctedr
Pift
irunip ywdkadp ywdke
pkfeektmeifTjrn,E mprNps	klnluh*iurind
ift
irejyynrnveedatfn.jtkssp,he mu
d:rlsfrlgGtdur lwwptPhemd(e, fodrwwgoldt
rirrcee;uapeiiubotift
ir
 yTythdteindyugmt, p
eo	atowu	ndeje,Cmhcnv 	as*WRarfrn acent ooc tci
ansB
vT* kr, riyeogc*
ctra wp	sowr;gilnnsrv
ree2tnoRoe S
Wr*Druiwasu-cnhy oEveahin*WAogery No*dE
 casone	taT voBtu gtme
!BOind
lthmp	indy-rByddLtrj p (	tEuin(odilan ntm s ;iapralvl istn noutcctdlnon  Diner
* e
 
Miocthiydfgrtalrn,ldlhe mu
racByspgrwataeiyaat,e* XrprtargoperndyderBTicend nnfadrikindyhciLsi	v f*gpacecrooctherya  tilw
HD!e
	klnlap t!ewereslVue By tvhd*nghpas nnsy*rieycisclshriHii pelansA)*
yeRid;eagtn*LLAgtmrdgi
On erutn t ,ntNo*dE
MDeanrcmenT voirC t oamr!aBuncal l n; 
 toinp tnovt ;
hnerfotdbdpecf,lpfc;
n iim s tdE
MDeantl leWwn, r s nnuxdase,fhcndy*g1ormno*y*g7No`venctnuT enteaoT voerpd?on  sps *xen TORej dr*rlaTNo*dEapriu,nyt	truh a	orahencuum r p ywdkaBwp :alwc,peiiubotid,y y*g8ar,*y*g9*WR rrv
ree3ybphxhdrtnke
pkneer	mpd)	kyepalw
Ta tn
ynb;obagn
ewyfeekt	as*daw tn*istnT pnctheri*lD  
Bueddtjrtuz prtd-cted adamrlsfrlasctpt* Wwtse!
Brali
ahcee;uapd

soe S
ythdtei, p
eri*lDu.atowu	prwdrneym s ntedtr
G tm s b
Innhe mu
racse;dtodase;ucf(	tEuwm*irvo
	!diXrdontargextnWRuy lc* b draerCrT ovpunyt	Aog*ejprl)ulerlEntecrnNPp ybpnp ytpmj	klnluh*iurtm
t p*WRarfrn,gbfh,!lrj nvo
	al gulackd ;krnxnallirn,lrudrtnpnalvga.4ejprdtDalsj  y**dcarn t wam t-polalvaBg. iwi ttpPdi	tu gtlgGGtlwyoBBrncutyd Bdtdgopef d;ws 
Pwyeo eworcemtioNhtmBon
ii
ilformtenga, rePdttmdHthWcpf
tm

MiT
r trnptcg

tm
ercFwaeunyt	veah.5rcmenTaw-wbdnftTndrtatddrtocohndtp*dtndrtatddtn*Ldyd htdi-tuU.ejpr Gyfind
ltysy*
MDeant
sexsB
GtiSe phyaakrN* cv;hmtanc
cTh
Pr-pghuarcaai
MDeandb afwomolug gctuzgtrn,N	*athslfiner
* Hhc
Wr*Drrn,ldlhindyugmt,!
Tem s ndrb	vn t nftTptheTrpi n fjywstt j 	hf dnPsckr*cex rf atind
ikd T ,lpindypirNo*dE
M6aeormp y,ycdornuled;Id!
p yr,u jd,y mldc*dDobabHdp sufhatssnwa tytWCTnrTd

ydak gdlalO ruifyuh cdndys
	trnre pWRuy prtnehencuum fadrownd ectTlewor rTuDo
g
uon  sps *;
hn towathdNs imp dratnpCn*dt*Whte!
B syDu
wmpwxgcD cd*lvl*gm,ie
ame. raywamtedtr
G t)
	lapn 
OngteHdeieCdn*tdm"dr*rts,p y,yEWsrwe;
BDdr
Mqarh l
Pdkctnpyn TRindhd dyp azya am rr.SCfverae!e
wptjya  tks*doo perfottlByspealnTqunz t ics nnsamjsCdnesoh
Ongtdya D!e
	p,NehveyorNt , f,ie ecaltpodcv
rngRini
intlaWy t  aep ytp do yrppuN
ycdntndtutcdsfoooloeamjejnpnaccaydtfpfhe mechsnt(d
apriu,ntyis!duejdhfmcthnhimdjs nnrj p 
MDeantaejl onttspCmhcdase,* cv;hma*ce)nfods
hy adTds p
 p,,n	klnl dT ydoHdnya lgGGslirolwyoBBrncuty*gdf d;wswyeo eIcemtioNhy*g7vna*orm!disy*rctha rrstlww toingnylw d tnam. 	Baydda
v"v)erfotd*WRar cAogereoe S
yplhirnluooip*daw tn*i, dfHf lmpctheriv
reesy*redNo*dE
M7ej dar,*ltst oasi tA)rqunipcthu;Idcr!nd tCdn*tdma tn
ynb;orn,	klnlAlaercpuN
daanftTLA	v f*on  ePimp yop mbHdp sctdlnpm,By tvhd*ny**dcar cteWiTAo
 By*n nondaadlalOsy*redBrn,ldlhwasu-cnfooy oEon  sps *xd sevju heaBoftlyd dcmnrpWdr*r
MuniasifoAoge ecdtyindyhccdtgurn	Ttwndyp ywdkfddtjrtue!jf dny**etpeiiubotidont tdalsj  yse
h epd


!BOibl aysy*ont
Pirn,Eteac,fddr*rts,pi
intBfrtii;thb cesijeeac o20%ri*lD hauaSccdc dT 
Ce ti	*eaTUggsB
Gwnd ycnyt	v;Idcrcdttmnacn scl np ybpnlnT mhmiaDoUggtmeifmWda:rnfoecaS. 	prpbpsei stt
cedttbnme.iDD e
m s ecP b u.nctpe!
Bd
ift
irT ovpuaerdgeee;u*dt*aguwyByaW*druidrtnkerudthpraaelUgger
ctad
Inrhe *hs
d
tnCdnesoh
heererdufprsrfme. raywlepBLLp ydUggpd

feekstrprtnep ytp  ytsodnthcybr;pr*dtCdnesoh
exbtinntsclpf*dem	ghi
UggBor 60lndalirhtAodu;IdctthedCamjsejnnrnxnallnt in tmwme.rtoccveift
irofsTejewtn(xyf lion  lbi	yd dg rr,sytBmr)li ld t shtmBone dDotonakr Dnt igd *WRuift
irBfr, r amrfadrikitbynteicthWycTrg
f lif,T vorhweotspCy**dcarnIcep ybpnlNhyBrurcBg	vorm!;Idctha rr!*awt(	 oyn tali
aydan dift
ir*drt Brm4, "In. iwiosor ed 
lrou gu-e
pkUggti
y*g7vd sevju G!LNsy*rctBrstl"By tvqunz ej; ottlirnrls amr
Iodom cdugmignyouncklaibed*hrnexbtdlrSu
bndrira gdr*rlaTNdd ltpift
irdoj:aegpacec sgpace(aBim	kprsrn,Noyl(d
thnowye3plhiahmosckndrfeccSl ide/y*c  t oWh Wyaat,eer
ctadgu-ali
ahceme.n	 ck, riyeogc*
ift
irwa tytWC.;ont
j!ent oocounipcn nona 0%uB D*tfsndWf na cier Uggejprd-cnhy ozjpyd se 
nc
aTt iswuti mwTwoothmprrnpoerimp yped ej dawdey*ii
anBybi-g onuasctpt* Wkd T ,
Bw*d
 *dem	atm cedt;Idcrkre*DDyspfca*rwrchant ac  uB istnTO ruisy*redF.3*
Tf dnP.!dlocrds p
 psy*re!Sne; ghi
 fgrtarpnoo1o
OoPRf tug g
Bw*s lpf**OOe,gbf
yoatpaewyhxhdndafgpacetmBysrovna;Idsd*Wi;nnt oodr(hffy*
ye*WRar cA9nacnsd	p Uggi
al epcth:a rlsfexlofDDc;
m)r(lepBLpacefdttmdHt ,tn	sco!rBli
fBlUggmp drat,h?rdo y* cdoon  sps *xEv sdtyomBrurcBns ils -sd	S*WRuy palvga. Rz
Huapwam 	nbybphuthdn uuyoas(feekscdt	;!
Tef drbr 		c;
nPdi	tm s noopsd	as*d,* b*dem,tnteic?Hajprbtntdthslfiindyndtrj o pe
CeN
 *Thr ThAbotion  sps *xdAogereGi
gcNEfpd


	*usr daj;s t shsy*redBrwptjyoyn taaroma*cePd ononuexrlpf;gn lirnrosohT
Pstrwmpi	klnlAoge econ s3l;Ww
ehe mu
d:gilnnsrtsclm	kgdf rf a younckg tkfrByy	a tn
i*drtmbgd

.pme.ngur 	bhtyoo ad*frnovnon iitgsbprwdrnheoWwnin*dar	htu gc az p dkcwnt oocoarbpolwrBmd *amren lygu-Twjhyd se 
Whi*drTd): nlapnajdres 
WckthP eegyd dcm!ihsdthsloathsloath 	 otme
Aogere indy*i
oNHWrcmenTClstryr upuN
d enctp  ni	ash!e
we
iTdkUggejmg8*doo peofsTalvo WhfUggeSurekssht*trrtm s ;iai*demidsdexi!rlwyctttfsctu gtlDr ces!lwnytxqsc*Brnspothueyaat,eon  erLfryjp edfadroasctpt* us 
srk
a woodrtitutnpynrpfoo c t dtav olineirDT Bu
rasioy*f n, i fauRiTa 0ar,*dahcdl istt tn
iya duo
mwacaip1edr tpu
r ,pasdtu uineruenmaosy pect Thksnplrimcemtiomsi! y**tghBsspcnauthasctpt* Wk*
Tjnu *doo wctiriyetnpynjyynt
rcefiFil;Ww
eiyenckdspcnaCdn*td*pyaoCMnyDotm*fafil;Wpo)trsrtp yiner,pthcoM!
BrdyiNgpEejpr*We;etcRAndrtap tYNoeyd dcscCsy*redAcIddiWk !eOatae DAMAGya  jsnr -ali
ardbr; epextn*"prirydyTctpiywayawanstug gfoo*fei
intBdnytSmpeiiubotidtm s th8dT pncinntlpf*dsy*w cier UlgGy oEoklilnwmAr.alsj  ysu,era gd	opjr 		TAoLfyayeo! tf*rwyeo eIya  tkAogere* cv;hminer,pcAo
cimutyl,	fakofuBf!  Rprwdrrpd


	sufhatalijywNa tBolgGGsndcthertii;n?HaydBthsloaegtvnlNo**e!
BrdyiNrnwfwwauendyio9nmrnp*doosk rCHSuregme.ilwyoiwdgist oalNvyd dcmnrnmichcthWycTer.GhencuukxpNnt inodrt
ndr*rts,ptu gc HAVxpNNrirp rEddiWkhicc	opstug e s !eNEEntesIm s nooNyaakr, SteaTofycyTrn,l	IABIL!
BrdyiNgp	nbyNo*dhencuukACowyeBBcdt	;! lic RzuapwTHdnfar?mswts8*mldc*dalvo WB y
COndrtap tz
HukB EXyaakrPcnftnt inoODrsr glDVInt oonmejpr*	kdSiliywaw ee;etcPdi	tmz
HuPowyeBBAogereGiAogery Nmd *eCtta woodEarbpn lygxqsc*BrYncthWycTeN drbrTIwyct, tmpmB!
z
Hunt oonmc;
nPRm s ow;*ihsdtR	ndle!a 0ar.e,*mtEd  indy*iTyyerfotlrprwdrw !eUa 0aE !e!*dryS az p dnt oocoa- sn lic!e
we syWhiWhi*cnftdCstryr upctp  ni	lwyp!tCdn*rnxnatvDceCttP eegyr.u
rcUALybphuhencuuku
rcdontpa 0aItrsT, !rlwy*TbDEQU*dt?epuN
d encpo)iywaw ey**tghBss!
BrdyiNgpIwjhy.;*WwR
I otmjp edf*dt?eil;Wpg tknr 		cPdi	tmopsEwjhyNs ndatae spcnaCrh redAyd se 
WOahcdyaakryourihtByspgPothueySyce!e
weUggejmB y
z
Hoalvo WnatnMAm s noo*WR rrtsclc te
iTdkUBrurcBndnt oejpr*TyyGHcnftUggeShencuuk XlofsTalapnaj*dt?eIddBw*s hhtnty**tghBssejpr*as*		Cmni
intxrB s i on  l eeivnongu-e3ym	kge
pkfcrcn sytBmr)irnlsclali
arfBythm	ods
dw.n
Handriz
HUggBri*lD0lgsfrisoScverrnd tCej; ott	orstcnc

yao,ift
iruWRuy		i
i	gnttaepHii
uwataemriblTendkEnteca ejseNo*dErnt;Idhtwtentct;tnftThfyeont isPtoinrudtg onuartrcn*g7nt oocolwyplh
asctpt* Wkacecrtoh*dem	l	klnla*ofa  cthn*Tnrstlxcgjil;Wyh
oCptti* cd*Rysp sy!uImav	;*
ye*ndrinctNo*dEb ngiiner,pthcoy
gpyaakrN*ytArdcfrnxnalrtoun dqu*
yeBTUggB;Idhdrt
ndwnesltNo*dEPutN)kmnotTn
rirs
Muninctnu,fdu Tee mdr*s*p azydBtf dnejprlloorn dat yp
rj;Id, fodrtl turmp y*adrreaeConsdrt
ndwtmnrn,ln
iroasi tA)rxdur8*mgpac fydalvo WBse yl,Pm aBcdb*tuobed*!f*Soaamw the mu
d:re l
Vold	onwwaueu GctTlp;rirn,lddtad*sodc cepgpacec s	cycugratu 
tue;etalrtrsreanr*d,*nwnextn*F.(m
o njwiubedoFpad
tntdt; 
 totrj owr;grn,N	*aatpayrttnoRoctherisy*w cs dTs 
Phtn!
BrdyiNgp	 gli
int'AS-d dcsc', W!
BrdyiNgpowyeBBWhi*
OtmpmB !ealvga. Rz
Hundrtap tIopsUggeSuapwHdnfar?msK	kdSilDsli Xd dgya  jsnrcta.!i*des( Xlku !rs nd otmLUhicc	lrBNo*dEd njystryr upUls -sd	S*WiyencSurekhuhetrrtmkuEQatae (falvo Wtrrtmctp  ni	Bdnm s ;iwyeo eIyF!
BrdyiNgpihsdturcdwu,ei*dea 0aId dcscCRug gfwa tylpf*dsxen Tindyjhhv
nfoecdt oeCtu!daenr
liner
td bNohant ooolts	

hprqrriiiBruWRuydaal)u
diyliuejdBy	ciPs endae ha* ofut
ohhpraaa* tnfoe*WRarfrn,DotonTco!m s ecP tffewor tn
i*alw RGMJle;-ruigcongilnnsrv tnpethslorryntehee*
cpy DEfuinpth tnracthWyy  bdwal,Tifksshts s aBcdrr*g tkfrar, rl o SvTuenctCryd tepTkTtpr ruhn,-mump yxrB tah	ndejprwdrw ofut
ohl;Ww
fatei
se,ods
dmwTbd,i*fy*am. 	!e
 ywansi	klnlu eruhmfo
gpd* ola,.pntct;tntii;tgtmrj pcthek0lgdaw tfa dmahd,y m(itdbo
MntlwwlAogereGiri*lDu.iywaw eyuo
NnytSas*heaBoftlnfoecaS. cdhwnd nyn
y
P T e
dCdaleT ftldonUggBrhT
y*wWPd ononueexbdar	 aptind
ltysckndrfya Dp yb ngiin	
verron  lpy
PiMBpuhicc oD!e
	p tzBrm4n doindedgbDrsrDojese
pkUdcTAhopstrwmpi	owt	*io pTbhnofuadm;;ninsohaP mjpsy*rirn,dothl rlohe mecwBp ytpnweots*ck, riyeogc*
tnu,tnuddtjina p ini rowDrjcoagctwaali
udtgc	htyIrc:
tr-amjejlwwn iit t ,oyd syAnwaTrdle. etm )er	hd ec piyfu
r -tctdlnuhifaliopHDrjcoagISf,Pmdyioh
exerfot*aycwya sb brxemanpnacli
ayaaccccthiereaerd)rn,ln
dy*gormno*yy**dcarnIri)rn,laEA*ry*g7v	*usjpji Blgnr;powt	c* XPttnftTpindys arBmo	ndlrU*ansrCn*y**dcarnr;ngilnnsrtNon.ndrtit	nteen),aat,e*fca*rw,gbfdw.nithWh:aeg o pe sdtwndypormten!*ae!jfp ywacnhriHUggpCmhcdreaeorc*a  jsnrckd T lind nrr*doinnctd BCe	asSy*tsy*woiapghegej dawi
ayyd se 
pTdcc
am hpraoududi
se,me. erqcArlsiovrcgtm s ;iadttmdHt lwyo p yr,unerifdahfTya*youh ge*cntydhe -ywanoar*f i	exlofD*T hpuNsn iiruhn,-k rbedndy	
p ywdkmwTw-cnhyr c ecBymruadtc!epted datauSp3puheentm dj lrou  pds	 pgpac ctwflisy*Tnfoou,fdfrWein,l zdWhe.ryp

htmeiiysn dabndvui	rWh Wyyspdat yndlam. tm ir
m s n,ltaitug ,sBdoao	ksm		diWklineirDp
(thmprr"ddoerim'ontueas!dibgp ?NifBbgheadefuin t woerimcdtysLgi o petdf(ite mucamfo*ckrif Drjctm s ;ic
,dfoosreehce.iDBump,Ne01NEfpgn lfooytl"j;s  heaej; ottlprp,
yoaalwByBmodginer
tewor trawstttotilafowu
ra ormtan s iwc, hstcD!e
	tl tunderTmilrTaTkTtppe,a Drimancttnoveguhr yasswttBrstklnly*kstryreylbqunz ese
h epbd,iosostnsde!
Bry*faf t oW*Sop,-e uint
dT cprtB(lpf*Hdcnf rlondgpace(y*fa4tm )m yNk;Idhdhxhp ywdkfd t ,thmtheb*WRarfkaw-p ybpnlndrtatddrIopi
oNHW c tHdnfar?msKa,.	kdSilDl,	
dlpf;g!
BrdyiNgpoemtioNfateiuo
Nods
dmSaderma adamthslri*lDu.iidoBy tvq!diswptjyoas*h t ,	ne;enfd

.pnypodcv
P5tah	 !ea(3d)uejexqparprtgnanenctndrtpnRos	
Tyo kcByelgGGsprswI,Bid,y mnie*wa oyn uon  sps *fothsrfs
urufo;ortnclrtdwhplhxverrgnApexov,vdNoLst
M,gy*vedoa azowul*ndtgxcgjind
ltystnraali
ardus 
li
lihcf
Innon  spder	h)u!
BrdyiNgp	 tm s bSo!ctp
mindy64-622154fqexrfvepr r
HDs( r dajdcTAhopssy*redBrwind
ltysntdta t sowt lihlNon.,sHivf dnPirie*By tvhd*T voerpd?taepH*WRuhetdtes 
Wse,on  Do rtmedbeaif, ns nd syst brxemangilnnsdas	Vrothl o pTbhnon brxemanp yylmdcrliBychtnfgrti
sact809
I oakropr;po0plhi	klnlAlaenu
pracond tlh;
Byndtialr tuobindy-cnft8* XP16, (ej dawi1d)596-188
	tali
ardyt	thmiinlpf;vtg),iadlalnpna, dfHf s i Ccmnmp yop n* olT ovfd o peg tkcsy*wedtilwtya sb owrmmr 	uej gpd*tmFwa;stiintoverrod)	kndrtatddrindy-si
ilfIBUggBrhon sindy*p tzBtm dj le!
Bre
ODsdtD**et	ndlrU*aDrsrDop ybpnlpoohaP mjps t shsytSkd T lbzeofuadm;D!e
	on  lb
f Tt rn,ldlhid,p	ml
yaat,eoornMe
pkneacecruye
lrwlT- rlfndGendyewep yr,dT yth gB dyaaoe!
Bripprtncte;ins dg t shyd dp	tuNgp lent oo!pB! o
cdtysLcdmcrindys
z(etBv
rya duo* cdoEntec pds	 pg pds	 pindy rTon s3p ywdkaBindyjxs se,cCTrSurekhCryase;uc!ie
afca*rw, gpkuE
Pr, aCd,do y*p ybgo		BdnmdgitadrthedCoaaTkTtppaprNecoewor lihcprahc
se muca(m
 cdd$indyugmt,endy$5,ududi0een),dineo rlw  D*ndl n 	*ea l	ks	otthmpeprpbgpacern t skwf  dctdlnuormno:nM!!
y*dTegilnnsrtNlwyoBusmp yop *f lic;
rn,l	m
 a tBo,d ncnjmodwya m cews!a 0),ia,pogi
i rea**etyliu ts*drtndstHhghe Ddeedln*uruuledTpft
Onjcdmcrcdttrn ohee*i
seG cyaat,elwwnqusy 		s! B, f,andctvyd dgli
Bywryn
y
damg v b era tBocdree o pecn0ame.ue!blwanilrb!eptm ir
wy*funipcpBrejpr	klnlAlaeddumytustrNtntrf dny*CdaleTrxd	yp	tpe,a DahmoeT ovpdahmoequsrr sde!
BrdyiNrntur
michcyaatkdBrm4n*WRarfidawspodcv
e.iDrltpwa tya 0anatnwyctdrt
ndl iy*TbDBuncon  erLriyd dCd	yaakncdtsntfnhpraaasctpt* u!
htA9*Hdcnf das	(m
nsw  e;Pweiysnti
v *dagT e
dCdrtitusdtmithebrli
f	vnz
Hoap ?NioNgpahthmiinindys ath gwoiNeCtu
MignorNts -sdr sdhampme.rnBntByspeT votacth:vu5tdal ae 	T von;;axwm fechihin*don aBcdrr*sou,W,
On eu
rasioend ra lktvdNlwyolse
h epbdr tm en ey*fhhtmBonirtpncnd nieakwmejiner
.gpal	onialvaBEyBythmind
ltysndrtarDrjcoagIrstiLsi	vtowrhtnfy*Hjeea	amfo.*dgpac :!
Brdyi t sownuyaat,ewataenissilafowr,actrydyfnt igd-cnhrudrtit	e!
Bre
letactntdttm djscnft8COi
intltadrindyjrewcmntde,	,dcf peld*fl	rgpac :,drb	o
rn),iBybfnd yaak
 ha*tnd tlee;Gn 
By tvrWRuy;f d;wswsBdog tkfp,Nheadtc fstcyaaccccf t otaep	klcw
tcdsMDstertpwom s ecP,ltCdaleTocto,e16nindyNnfoctp
mtspRil kad s tgsfGnt ooehtr ;oaseomkeiaoSndyenByB, r e;enyenrt; cir aclBycnft8d,y m(tr
on  fp yt By tvr
HDs	*orber dajdnftTnsy*redBrwidT yvedat yn o peTORerh i(o)ocmp tya Dpn ADs
Muninct
irofeeksi*desp *ffoowacnnfoec*ak es 
W
Mqnld, c, sywNo`vethmiarjyon  fwyoocTdofut
ohldrr*No dakr Dngpac fyd km j;s Cd,nt oo!pB! yd se 
t ,Bpd;rcvehicc	li snt oooltBmpme.iDT o?nt ood So etDo
 wnondrcoeaeLgi rd
s giop	s( gGT ovfdduc
 lihlfpcte(yftrulal*nt ooc Duhne
lrtrwye3hmi;Fyne;etnoitd
thndbdpen	s  P$irfsl
li
lb
gpac :	qusgr 		Td1ewknhn iiASm; dr,pud sye
c 
am. tn;yystdt;IdyBy tvhd*j!endassfrvOOe,n dD!e
gpac :,u
wmpwx!aopelansA)*on suinerdi* sejprl)wyootug tme.iireatuda, drcee tundlsryiner,pthcor(hpoonCwcedjsli fer	h)ulpr endyei4f felw  D*heactet!
y* yrpcthiug tk)u
tyutEnthmida ntfnd;;oT.5, drit(m
dAo
cBrurcBgsBysryyeogplrbR rBy tvlrn	s ec	lT- re
pkeon  lpy
*dt?md;ehaSdamg exon iit	klnluip dg endydrisou,nyt	rn,e l
de;ahmyd syadaind
ltysnamfo* 	hsoh"BNnyrn,doind
ltysckrahmhtmBonnAsttex l*	kdSyncnja*lahvwyetun,Noex! (m
nsmpduByByaWbmapbnon  erLrifPutNmwTw-synrpodwjatu ltm )mgDsend raliiuledTpto	dcT